---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '50314'
  title: 48 Laws of Power
  author: 'Greene, Robert'
  highlightsCount: 7
---
# 48 Laws of Power
## Metadata
* Author: [[Greene, Robert]]

## Highlights
LAW 6 COURT ATTENTION AT ALL COST — location: [22]() ^ref-24080

---
LAW 7 GET OTHERS TO DO THE WORK FOR YOU, BUT ALWAYS TAKE THE CREDIT Use the wisdom, knowledge, and legwork of other people to further your own cause. Not only will such assistance save you valuable time and energy, it will give you a godlike aura of efficiency and speed. In the end your helpers will be forgotten and you will be remembered. Never do yourself what others can do for you. — location: [26]() ^ref-60818

---
LAW 11 LEARN TO KEEP PEOPLE DEPENDENT ON YOU To maintain your independence you must always be needed and wanted. The more you are relied on, the more freedom you have. Make people depend on you for their happiness and prosperity and you have nothing to fear. Never teach them enough so that they can do without you. — location: [40]() ^ref-52915

---
LAW 13 WHEN ASKING FOR HELP, APPEAL TO PEOPLE'S SELF-INTEREST, NEVER TO THEIR MERCY OR GRATITUDE — location: [47]() ^ref-52676

---
LAW 23 CONCENTRATE YOUR FORCES Conserve your forces and energies by keeping them concentrated at theirstrongest point. You gain more by finding a rich mine and mining it deeper, than by flitting from one shallow mine to anotherintensity defeats ex-tensity every time. When looking for sources of power to elevate you, find the one key patron, the fat cow — location: [84]() ^ref-14560

---
LAW 2 7 PLAY ON PEOPLE'S NEED TO BELIEVE TO CREATE A CULTLIKE FOLLOWING People have an overwhelming desire to believe in something. Become the focal point of such desire by offering them a cause, a new faith to follow. Keep your words vague but full of promise; emphasize enthusiasm over rationality and clear thinking. Give your new disciples rituals to perform, ask them to make sacrifices on your behalf. — location: [97]() ^ref-37113

---
When you act, act effortlessly, as if you could do much more. — location: [110]() ^ref-31462

---
