---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '59144'
  title: Mastery
  author: 'Greene, Robert'
  highlightsCount: 73
---
# Mastery
## Metadata
* Author: [[Greene, Robert]]

## Highlights
“Just as a well-filled day brings blessed sleep, so a well-employed life brings a blessed death.” — location: [762]() ^ref-3160

---
Many of the greatest Masters in history have confessed to experiencing some kind of force or voice or sense of destiny that has guided them forward. For Napoleon Bonaparte it was his “star” that he always felt in ascendance when he made the right move. — location: [768]() ^ref-42718

---
We are a one-time phenomenon in the universe—our exact genetic makeup has never occurred before nor will it ever be repeated. For all of us, this uniqueness first expresses itself in childhood through certain primal inclinations. — location: [776]() ^ref-57843

---
They are forces within us that come from a deeper place than conscious words can express. They draw us to certain experiences and away from others. — location: [780]() ^ref-54611

---
With Masters it is so strong that it feels like something that has its own external reality—a force, a voice, destiny. In moments when we engage in an activity that corresponds to our deepest inclinations, we might experience a touch of this: We feel as if the words we write or the physical movements we perform come so quickly and easily that they are coming from outside us. We are literally “inspired,” the Latin word meaning something from the outside breathing within us. — location: [783]() ^ref-44732

---
You have a destiny to fulfill. The stronger you feel and maintain it—as a force, a voice, or in whatever form—the greater your chance for fulfilling this Life’s Task and achieving mastery. — location: [788]() ^ref-46534

---
What weakens this force, what makes you not feel it or even doubt its existence, is the degree to which you have succumbed to another force in life—social pressures to conform. — location: [790]() ^ref-62059

---
If these counterforces become strong enough, you can lose complete contact with your uniqueness, with who you really are. Your inclinations and desires become modeled on those of others. — location: [793]() ^ref-13990

---
The process of realizing your Life’s Task comes in three stages: First, you must connect or reconnect with your inclinations, that sense of uniqueness. — location: [801]() ^ref-23605

---
Eventually, you will hit upon a particular field, niche, or opportunity that suits you perfectly. You will recognize it when you find it because it will spark that childlike sense of wonder and excitement; it will feel right. Once found, everything will fall into place. You will learn more quickly and more deeply. Your skill level will reach a point where you will be able to claim your independence from within the group you work for and move out on your own. — location: [824]() ^ref-40204

---
premium. Think of it this way: What we lack most in the modern world is a sense of a larger purpose to our lives. — location: [833]() ^ref-10657

---
What we lack most in the modern world is a sense of a larger purpose to our lives. In the past, it was organized religion that often supplied this. But most of us now live in a secularized world. We human animals are unique—we must build our own world. — location: [834]() ^ref-40027

---
We thrive by the collective activity of people supplying their individual talents. Without such diversity, a culture dies. — location: [841]() ^ref-3632

---
The idea that there was some kind of magnetic force that operated on this needle, invisible to the eyes, touched him to the core. What if there were other forces in the world equally invisible yet equally powerful—ones that were undiscovered or not understood? For the rest of his life all of his interests and ideas would revolve around this simple question of hidden forces and fields, and he would often think back to the compass that had sparked the initial fascination. — location: [866]() ^ref-33567

---
In the beginning you choose a field that roughly corresponds to your interests (medicine, electrical engineering). From there you can go in one of two directions. The first is the Ramachandran path. From within your chosen field, you look for side paths that particularly attract you (in his case the science of perception and optics). — location: [979]() ^ref-47636

---
The second is the Matsuoka path. Once you have mastered your first field (robotics), you look for other subjects or skills that you can conquer (neuroscience), on your own time if necessary. — location: [984]() ^ref-32926

---
Occupy the perfect niche—The Darwinian strategy — location: [908]() ^ref-56798

---
In either direction, you have found a niche that is not crowded with competitors. You have freedom to roam, to pursue particular questions that interest you. You set your own agenda and command the resources available to this niche. Unburdened by overwhelming competition and politicking, you have time and space to bring to flower your Life’s Task. — location: [988]() ^ref-2126

---
Like Roach, you don’t want to abandon the skills and experience you have gained, but to find a new way to apply them. Your eye is on the future, not the past. — location: [1076]() ^ref-17459

---
The moment you rigidly follow a plan set in your youth, you lock yourself into a position, and the times will ruthlessly pass you by. — location: [1078]() ^ref-9038

---
The road to mastery requires patience. You will have to keep your focus on five or ten years down the road, when you will reap the rewards of your efforts. — location: [1132]() ^ref-29135

---
In the stories of the greatest Masters, past and present, we can inevitably detect a phase in their lives in which all of their future powers were in development, like the chrysalis of a butterfly. This part of their lives—a largely self-directed apprenticeship that lasts some five to ten years—receives little attention because it does not contain stories of great achievement or discovery. — location: [1306]() ^ref-45071

---
The principle is simple and must be engraved deeply in your mind: the goal of an apprenticeship is not money, a good position, a title, or a diploma, but rather the transformation of your mind and character—the first transformation on the way to mastery. — location: [1332]() ^ref-44011

---
Slowly, you will ground yourself in reality, in the objective world represented by the knowledge and skills that make people successful in it. You will learn how to work with others and handle criticism. In the process you will transform yourself from someone who is impatient and scattered into someone who is disciplined and focused, with a mind that can handle complexity. — location: [1336]() ^ref-40858

---
With the principle outlined above guiding you in your choices, you must think of three essential steps in your apprenticeship, each one overlapping the other. These steps are: Deep Observation (The Passive Mode), Skills Acquisition (The Practice Mode), and Experimentation (The Active Mode). — location: [1351]() ^ref-6770

---
The greatest mistake you can make in the initial months of your apprenticeship is to imagine that you have to get attention, impress people, and prove yourself. These thoughts will dominate your mind and close it off from the reality around you. — location: [1362]() ^ref-7664

---
Step One: Deep Observation—The Passive Mode — location: [1356]() ^ref-37131

---
You are like an anthropologist studying an alien culture, attuned to all of its nuances and conventions. You are not there to change that culture; you will only end up being killed, or in the case of work, fired. Later, when you have attained power and mastery, you will be the one to rewrite or destroy these same rules. — location: [1378]() ^ref-45293

---
Every task you are given, no matter how menial, offers opportunities to observe this world at work. — location: [1381]() ^ref-36319

---
First, knowing your environment inside and out will help you in navigating it and avoiding costly mistakes. — location: [1395]() ^ref-55887

---
Second, the ability to observe any unfamiliar environment will become a critical lifelong skill. — location: [1396]() ^ref-39941

---
Finally, you will become accustomed to observing first, basing your ideas and theories on what you have seen with your eyes, and then analyzing what you find. — location: [1399]() ^ref-29019

---
knowledge—a feeling for what you are doing that is hard to put into words but easy to demonstrate in action. And to understand how — location: [1408]() ^ref-9369

---
Step Two: Skills Acquisition—The Practice — location: [1401]() ^ref-41374

---
The natural model for learning, largely based on the power of mirror neurons, came from watching and imitating others, then repeating the action over and over. Our brains are highly suited for this form of learning. — location: [1426]() ^ref-40480

---
First, it is essential that you begin with one skill that you can master, and that serves as a foundation for acquiring others. You must avoid at all cost the idea that you can manage learning several skills at a time. — location: [1435]() ^ref-32869

---
But once something is repeated often enough, it becomes hardwired and automatic, and the neural pathways for this skill are delegated to other parts of the brain, farther down the cortex. Those neurons in the frontal cortex that we needed in the initial stages are now freed up to help in learning something else, and the area goes back to its normal size. — location: [1448]() ^ref-9502

---
This process of hardwiring cannot occur if you are constantly distracted, moving from one task to another. In such a case, the neural pathways dedicated to this skill never get established; — location: [1455]() ^ref-3329

---
It is better to dedicate two or three hours of intense focus to a skill than to spend eight hours of diffused concentration on it. You want to be as immediately present to what you are doing as possible. — location: [1456]() ^ref-3171

---
People who do not practice and learn new skills never gain a proper sense of proportion or self-criticism. They think they can achieve anything without effort and have little contact with reality. — location: [1461]() ^ref-13066

---
What offers immediate pleasure comes to seem like a distraction, an empty entertainment to help pass the time. Real pleasure comes from overcoming challenges, feeling confidence in your abilities, gaining fluency in skills, and experiencing the power this brings. You develop patience. Boredom no longer signals the need for distraction, but rather the need for new challenges to conquer. — location: [1472]() ^ref-36342

---
Step Three: Experimentation—The Active Mode — location: [1483]() ^ref-64596

---
As you gain in skill and confidence, you must make the move to a more active mode of experimentation. This could mean taking on more responsibility, initiating a project of some sort, doing work that exposes you to the criticisms of peers or even the public. — location: [1484]() ^ref-18379

---
You will know when your apprenticeship is over by the feeling that you have nothing left to learn in this environment. It is time to declare your independence or move to another place to continue your apprenticeship and expand your skill base. — location: [1497]() ^ref-48788

---
We are dealing with several fields of knowledge constantly intersecting with our own, and all of this chaos is exponentially increased by the information available through technology. What this means is that all of us must possess different forms of knowledge and an array of skills in different fields, and have minds that are capable of organizing large amounts of information. The future belongs to those who learn more skills and combine them in creative ways. And the process of learning skills, no matter how virtual, remains the same. — location: [1512]() ^ref-58952

---
1. Value learning over money — location: [1540]() ^ref-48954

---
job with mediocre pay has the added benefit of training you to get by with less—a valuable life skill. — location: [1591]() ^ref-34506

---
Happy to exploit your cheap and eager spirit, such mentors will often divulge more than the usual trade secrets. In the end, by valuing learning above all else, you will set the stage for your creative expansion, and the money will soon come to you. — location: [1594]() ^ref-27438

---
Keep expanding your horizons — location: [1596]() ^ref-40729

---
reality of the Apprenticeship Phase—no one is really going to help you or give you direction. In fact, the odds are against you. If you desire an apprenticeship, if you want to learn and set yourself up for mastery, you have to do it yourself, and with great energy. — location: [1657]() ^ref-44684

---
you must struggle against any limitations and continually work to expand your horizons. — location: [1661]() ^ref-58004

---
Reading books and materials that go beyond what is required is always a good starting point. Being exposed to ideas in the wide world, you will tend to develop a hunger for more and more knowledge; you will find it harder to remain satisfied in any narrow corner, which is precisely the point. — location: [1662]() ^ref-49479

---
3. Revert to a feeling of inferiority — location: [1670]() ^ref-18797

---
revert to a childlike feeling of inferiority—the feeling that others know much more than you and that you are dependent upon them to learn and safely navigate your apprenticeship. — location: [1737]() ^ref-22945

---
4. Trust the process — location: [1742]() ^ref-61771

---
What separates Masters from others is often something surprisingly simple. Whenever we learn a skill, we frequently reach a point of frustration—what we are learning seems beyond our capabilities. Giving in to these feelings, we unconsciously quit on ourselves before we actually give up. — location: [1792]() ^ref-495

---
The difference is not simply a matter of determination, but more of trust and faith. — location: [1795]() ^ref-34777

---
Bradley put all of his creative energy into coming up with novel and effective ways of practicing. — location: [1823]() ^ref-5722

---
In the aftermath of writing what he considered to be a mediocre poem, Keats took stock of all of the invaluable lessons he had learned. — location: [1851]() ^ref-760

---
6. Apprentice yourself in failure — location: [1876]() ^ref-20563

---
In any case, to apprentice as an entrepreneur you must act on your ideas as early as possible, exposing them to the public, a part of you even hoping that you’ll fail. — location: [1937]() ^ref-48713

---
7. Combine the “how” and the “what” — location: [1938]() ^ref-48069

---
We humans live in two worlds. First, there is the outer world of appearances—all of the forms of things that captivate our eye. But hidden from our view is another world—how these things actually function, their anatomy or composition, the parts working together and forming the whole. This second world is not so immediately captivating. It is harder to understand. — location: [1977]() ^ref-49950

---
Advance through trial and error — location: [1995]() ^ref-29911

---

2. The Fact of Great Yield — location: [4351]() ^ref-52198

---
The principles behind mechanical intelligence can be summarized as follows: whatever you are creating or designing, you must test and use it yourself. — location: [4551]() ^ref-25881

---
4. Natural Powers — location: [4558]() ^ref-6463

---
becoming a part of our evolution, as the hand became increasingly important — location: [4765]() ^ref-41991

---
As their apprentices learned, they learned as well. Oddly enough, they discovered that what really makes successful entrepreneurs is not the nature of their idea, or the university they went to, but their actual character—their willingness to adapt their idea and take advantage of possibilities they had not first imagined. This is precisely the trait—fluidity of mind—that Graham had identified in himself and in other inventors. The other essential character trait was supreme tenacity. — location: [4884]() ^ref-52573

---
In your own work you must follow the Leonardo path. Most people don’t have the patience to absorb their minds in the fine points and minutiae that are intrinsically part of their work. — location: [6057]() ^ref-39889

---
the time he began his own career as a trainer, he had accumulated so many overall hours of work in the sport that he already saw boxing from a perspective that was much wider and deeper than that of other trainers. And so when he felt that there was an even higher level to aim for, this intuition was based on the depth of all those years of practical experience. — location: [6125]() ^ref-39393

---
In any competitive environment in which there are winners or losers, the person who has the wider, more global perspective will inevitably prevail. The reason is simple: such a person will be able to think beyond the moment and control the overall dynamic through careful strategizing. — location: [6136]() ^ref-12841

---
Mastery is not a question of genetics or luck, but of following your natural inclinations and the deep desire that stirs you from within. Everyone has such inclinations. — location: [6410]() ^ref-62506

---
