---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '4539'
  title: The Daily Stoic
  author: 'Holiday, Ryan;Hanselman, Stephen'
  highlightsCount: 31
---
# The Daily Stoic
## Metadata
* Author: [[Holiday, Ryan;Hanselman, Stephen]]

## Highlights
Our goal with this book is to restore Stoicism to its rightful place as a tool in the pursuit of self-mastery, perseverance, and wisdom: something one uses to live a great life, rather than some esoteric field of academic inquiry. — location: [70]() ^ref-47471

---
Its name is derived from the Greek stoa, meaning porch, because that’s where Zeno first taught his students. — location: [98]() ^ref-20341

---
The philosophy asserts that virtue (meaning, chiefly, the four cardinal virtues of self-control, courage, justice, and wisdom) is happiness, and it is our perceptions of things—rather than the things themselves—that cause most of our trouble. — location: [99]() ^ref-64824

---
Accompanying each quotation is our attempt to tell a story, provide context, ask a question, prompt an exercise, or explain the perspective of the Stoic who said it so that you may find deeper understanding of whatever answers you are seeking. — location: [133]() ^ref-52777

---
The areas of great interest to the Stoics all make an appearance here: virtue, mortality, emotions, self-awareness, fortitude, right action, problem solving, acceptance, mental clarity, pragmatism, unbiased thought, and duty. — location: [143]() ^ref-49895

---
“The chief task in life is simply this: to identify and separate matters so that I can say clearly to myself which are externals not under my control, and which have to do with the choices I actually control. Where then do I look for good and evil? Not to uncontrollable externals, but within myself to the choices that are my own . . .” —EPICTETUS, DISCOURSES, 2.5.4–5 — location: [155]() ^ref-63946

---
time spent hurling yourself at these immovable objects is time not spent on the things we can change. — location: [162]() ^ref-15735

---
There is a reason there’s often vomit at crime scenes. Instead of the catharsis the person thought they’d feel when they let themselves get out of control or when they got their revenge, they ended up making themselves sick. We feel a version of this when we lie, when we cheat, when we screw someone over. — location: [3456]() ^ref-31981

---
“You have proof in the extent of your wanderings that you never found the art of living anywhere—not in logic, nor in wealth, fame, or in any indulgence. Nowhere. Where is it then? In doing what human nature demands. How is a person to do this? By having principles be the source of desire and action. What principles? Those to do with good and evil, indeed in the belief that there is no good for a human being except what creates justice, self-control, courage and freedom, and nothing evil except what destroys these things.” — location: [3599]() ^ref-64108

---
Instead of simply accepting what happens, they urge us to actually enjoy what has happened—whatever it — location: [3744]() ^ref-56074

---
“Our rational nature moves freely forward in its impressions when it: 1) accepts nothing false or uncertain; 2) directs its impulses only to acts for the common good; 3) limits its desires and aversions only to what’s in its own power; 4) embraces everything nature assigns it.” — location: [3938]() ^ref-42118

---
“As for me, I would choose being sick over living in luxury, for being sick only harms the body, whereas luxury destroys both the body and the soul, causing weakness and incapacity in the body, and lack of control and cowardice in the soul. What’s more, luxury breeds injustice because it also breeds greediness.” — location: [4033]() ^ref-6743

---
December 15th A SIMPLE WAY TO MEASURE OUR DAYS “This is the mark of perfection of character—to spend each day as if it were your last, without frenzy, laziness, or any pretending.” —MARCUS AURELIUS, MEDITATIONS, 7.69 The Stoics didn’t think that anyone could be perfect. The idea of becoming a sage—the highest aspiration of a philosopher—wasn’t realistic. This was just their Platonic ideal. Still, they started every day hoping to get a little closer to that mark. There was much to gain in the trying. Can — location: [4258]() ^ref-26824

---
Can you actually live today like it is your last day? Is it even possible to embody completeness or perfection in our ethos (character), effortlessly doing the right thing for a full twenty-four hours? Is it possible for more than a minute? Maybe not. But if trying was enough for the Stoics, it should be enough for us too. — location: [4264]() ^ref-6748

---
“How many have laid waste to your life when you weren’t aware of what you were losing, how much was wasted in pointless grief, foolish joy, greedy desire, and social amusements—how little of your own was left to you. You will realize you are dying before your time!” —SENECA, ON THE BREVITY OF LIFE, 3.3b — location: [180]() ^ref-30063

---
What happened yesterday—what happened five minutes ago—is the past. We can reignite and restart whenever we like. Why not do it right now? — location: [398]() ^ref-58961

---
What bad habit did I curb today? How am I better? Were my actions just? How can I improve? — location: [421]() ^ref-44267

---
“I have the power within me to keep that out. I can see the truth.” — location: [482]() ^ref-11764

---
Marcus Aurelius would suggest this Stoic mantra—a reminder or watch phrase to use when we feel false impressions, distractions, or the crush of everyday life upon us. It says, essentially, “I have the power within me to keep that out. I can see the truth.” — location: [481]() ^ref-24018

---
How much more time, energy, and pure brainpower would you have available if you drastically cut your media consumption? How much more rested and present would you feel if you were no longer excited and outraged by every scandal, breaking story, and potential crisis (many of which never come to pass anyway)? — location: [530]() ^ref-22678

---
this—you are an old person, you won’t let yourself be enslaved by this any longer, no longer pulled like a puppet by every impulse, and you’ll stop complaining about your present fortune or dreading the future.” — location: [561]() ^ref-44508

---
“I hope this is making you feel better.” — location: [637]() ^ref-41659

---
In other words, it is possible to hold no opinion about a negative thing. You just need to cultivate that power instead of wielding it accidentally. Especially when having an opinion is likely to make us aggravated. Practice the ability of having absolutely no thoughts about something—act as if you had no idea it ever occurred. Or that you’ve never heard of it before. Let it become irrelevant or nonexistent to you. It’ll be a lot less powerful this way. — location: [648]() ^ref-28620

---
Life (and our job) is difficult enough. Let’s not make it harder by getting emotional about insignificant matters or digging in for battles we don’t actually care about. Let’s not let emotion get in the way of kathêkon, the simple, appropriate actions on the path to virtue. — location: [739]() ^ref-8991

---

agree to anyway. Take an inventory of your — location: [937]() ^ref-10147

---
It is sad to consider how much time many people spend in the course of a day doing things they “have” to do—not necessary obligations like work or family, but the obligations we needlessly accept out of vanity or ignorance. — location: [930]() ^ref-55050

---
Remember: even what we get for free has a cost, if only in what we pay to store it—in our garages and in our minds. As you walk past your possessions today, ask yourself: Do I need this? — location: [946]() ^ref-14953

---
Listen and connect with people, don’t perform for them. — location: [959]() ^ref-13820

---
It doesn’t have to be an actual person, just someone who, like Seneca said, can stand witness to our behavior. Someone who can quietly admonish us if we are considering doing something lazy, dishonest, or selfish. — location: [1010]() ^ref-45200

---
As Epictetus put it, “It is impossible for a person to begin to learn what he thinks he already knows.” Today, we will be unable to improve, unable to learn, unable to earn the respect of others if we think we’re already perfect, a genius admired far and wide. — location: [1055]() ^ref-12404

---

The good things in life cost what they cost. The unnecessary things are not worth it at any price. — location: [1206]() ^ref-36309

---
