---
title: Bunny Girl Senpai
---
Tags: #anime
Links: [Animes](out/animes.md)
___
# Bunny Girl Senpai

I decided to make this in hopes that I can keep my feelings after watching the anime somewhere for me to look back upon in the future. I might not be as emotional as I was as soon as I finished the movie, but at least it’s given me some time to think and process things through.  
  
Initially, I thought this anime was going to be more comedic and sexual than it turned out to be. I guess the clickbait cover photo did work, huh? Anyways, I don’t even know where to begin. I’ll be honest, I didn’t read any descriptions of the anime and based it off the name and cover, but I still loved the plot despite its difference from my expectations. Virtually every episode had that little twist/moment that sparked something inside me- whether it was the feeling of wanting a girlfriend again, the applicability of their scenarios to the real world, or just pure moments of wholesomeness, it made me appreciate this anime that much more. Even though I hadn’t really cried until the movie (where I ended up crying like 4+ times lul), emotions were just resonating through my body after the different events in the anime. For example, I was touched when Sakuta was willing to drink all those energy drinks just so Sakurajima wouldn’t escape his mind if he were to fall asleep. He had exams to take, yet he still persevered and risked his health just for Mai-san (but even Mai-san knew when enough was enough and forced him to sleep). Even though it was only episode 2-3 of the anime, I was feeling hopeless for him when he actually had fallen asleep, and had no clue on what would happen next. I got hella goosebumps when he had remembered her during the test and those flashbacks only touched my heart even more. When he was proclaiming his love to Mai-san to the whole school, I experienced feelings of wholesomeness and awe that were far greater than feelings of second-hand embarrassment for him because it obviously meant a lot to him. It was fun watching their relationship progress, and I was happy for both of them :,). You could tell that they really had feelings for eachother, and I wish it kept developing throughout the middle episodes as well. However, there’s only so much stuff you can incorporate into a measly 13 episodes.  
  
I was about to be pissed if Mai-san was going to leave Sakuta-kun because of his association with Koga-chan, but thank god nothing bad happened. I was also pissed at Koga-chan for trying to steal him, but after freeing herself from the flow of society, she’s bearable I guess (this was a shitty remark, I’m happy for her :))  
  
I’m surprised nothing happened about Futaba-san and her lewd pictures. I was fairly certain that something sketchy would happen after the text she received, but I guess not. I was expecting some major downfall because of her family’s social status. Overall, I was kinda surprised that she would turn to something like that because of her intelligence since scientific people are usually the most rational, but I guess that’s what happens when emotions gain control over you. Furthermore, I was really expecting Kunimi-kun to break up with his girlfriend and get with Futaba, but I guess not every relationship in the anime can be so lovey-dovey. Also, did I mention that I thought she was a teacher from the very beginning? LUL  
  
One thing I’m confused about is how Kunimi and Sakuta became such close friends. Sakuta’s got guts to be there for him whenever, even if it could \*possibly\* harm his social status.  
  
Kaede-chan was an interesting character to say the least. I initially thought she was going to give step-sister vibes from the beginning, but I still saw her as really cute nonetheless. I felt bad for her situation of being stuck indoors all day (very hypocritical of myself, maybe that’s why I started feeling depressed), even if it seemed like she initially enjoyed it. For some reason, I just feel bad for people when they’re heavily invested in technology- whether it be a cousin playing games/on their phone during a family gathering, or my mom wearing headphones and listening to her podcasts and such, such a blatant disconnect from reality reminds me of my younger self (and even current) and the regrets I have for doing such things. So, when she did decide to make the goals and try to achieve them, I was extremely proud of her. I was in tears when I learned that Kaede had made the goals for Sakuta-kun, giving the bath-tub scene much more emphasis. However, I really hoped Sakuta-kun got his money’s worth from that yearly zoo pass ;-; That shit hit didn’t make me cry, but it really hit me in the feels. I just loved how Sakuta-kun tried his best to be as great of a big brother as he can, even if it’s through something as simple as a zoo pass. Although it’s nice to have emotional extraordinary events happen, simple interactions like what I mentioned above can make me feel just the same way. When she had her previously self switched back, I truly missed the more naive Kaede-chan and kinda preferred her more, but at least I didn’t have to experience the difference too often since there was more emphasis put on the other characters.  
  
Also, during the part where Sakuta was about to get run over by the car, I was not expecting Mai-san to push him out of the way in the slightest bit. As soon as I saw a frame of her pushing him, I just went straight into tears. It made me appreciate Mai-san tremendously. I lowkey thought she would somewhat lose interest of Sakuta-kun due to her busy work schedule, but this scene and her wanting to go as far away on a train to prevent the car crash and just go with her was purely heartwarming. The moments of sincere closeness between the two were a main highlight of this anime for me, and the voice acting and art-style exemplified it to even greater heights.  
  
I don’t even know what to say about Sakuta-kun’s “rebirth”. Even though he was fucking dressed as a bunny trying to grab someone’s attention, his determination resonated within me. I really wanted for it to end up well, and I’m grateful it did.  
  
It was enjoying having the whole story unfold through Sakuta-kun as the MC. Some people might not have the same opinion, but I kind of liked his typical perverted and jackass personality. I’m not sure how certain events like trying to remember Mai-san would have played out if he wasn’t so reckless and determined. I also liked his appearance, and I think it paired really well with Mai-san.  
  
The conflict with Nodoka-chan and Mai-san really showed me that Mai-san wasn’t a hollywood celebrity that had zero feelings for others. I’m essentially a simp for Mai-san at this point lmao  
  
Initially I thought Shoko-san was a bitch at first because it seemed like she was trying to steal Sakuta from Mai-san, but the movie completely made me change my opinion on her. Honestly, I like the outcome in the end, the movie did a good job of providing an absolute resolution to everything. The movie was just amazing, and I really hope that more is going to be made for the other chapters in the light novel. I’m relatively questioning what will happen from here on out, will there be more conflicts that Sakuta has to solve? It seems as if everything has returned to normal, and I hope that means that there can be some cute ass episodes of Sakuta-kun and Mai-san- my only complaint about the anime. I’m content with the amount of screen time they spent together, but I would really really really appreciate it if there was more. Also, when Shoko-san and Sakuta-kun had that moment in the wedding place, I was really expecting Mai-san to somehow drop by, witness it, and completely despise Sakuta-kun, making me not appreciate the moment as much as I could have.

  

I thoroughly enjoyed everything about this anime, and I wish I could rewatch it sometime in the future, but I’m not sure if it would be worth it. The supernatural elements, the characters, the art style, the voice acting, the music, everything infused together into a masterpiece that I will remember for the rest of my life. Maybe I can come back to it once I finish other ones that are around the same genre. I fell in love with the artstyle almost instantly, and it’s going to be hard for me to watch animes that have a different or older style. It was even hard to watch the 1st episode of Violet Evergarden because of the difference in art-style.  
  
What I've learned is that romance and sol animes are my kryptonite. I love them to death, but they make me hella sad after. I’m not sure why an anime would make me question suicide, even if it had a happy ending. Is it because I’m tired of being lonely? Who knows.

**