essayJohn Mavrick Reyes
301455007

## Brainstorming
Any topic

Facebook is an inhuman company? A shift towards ethical companies?
What other inhuman practices are happening? A unique resurgence?
Companies should not have this much power with such measly measures? Transparency?
Topics

Facebook's power on society, questioning their 
- 
	- facebook collects data
	- advertisements influence people
- 

Should the metaverse be trusted with facebook?
- Lack of transparency
	- Required frances to speak out
- Intense data collection
- Capitalist view
	- Profits over wellbeing of users

With such a self-centered company, questionable whether we should trust them

## Outline
#### Introduction
**Hook:**
- With future technologies and experiences like the metaverse coming out, it's important to question the reputation and trust of the company pioneering such changes in society.

**Connecting:**
- Meta already have experience and authority seeing as they own Facebook and Instagram, but criticism has begun to emerge with their practices; one notable event being Frances Haugen's testimony to the US congress, highlighting illicit and harmful advertisements being approved for young target demographics.

**Thesis:**
- Frances' testimony raises concerns such as a lack of transparency and a hyper-capitalist mindset, areas of improvement that Meta must address to justify and maintain their power.

#### Body 1 - 
**Lead-in:**
- 

**Topic Sentence:**
-The method in which Meta's issues are discovered highlights the dangerously private nature of Meta's practices. 

**Supporting details:**
- There was no warning or apology message sent by Facebook regarding their slip-up; it required a brave worker to face backlash in order to inform the general public.

**Importance:**
- It is alarming to realize the disconnect people have with truly understanding Facebook's practices, seeing as even congressmen, let alone the general public were unaware of such harmful accidents prior to France's testimony.
- Thus, it's important for such an influential company to stay transparent with their visions to maintain trustworthy in the eyes of both their consumers and crticizers. 

**Transition:**
- 
#### Body 2
**Lead-in:**
- 

**Topic Sentence:**
- Meta seemingly operates on a profit-first incentive that potentially sacrifices human values.

**Supporting details:**
- In Frances' testimony, she believes Meta won't do anything until legally forced to due to the insane profits generated by their questionable.
- Furthermore, she sheds light to the company's focus on scalability, emphasizing how they are trying to use AI to automate the filtering of illicit advertisements. 

**Importance:**
- This raises questions regarding their morality, as the automation of such tasks can lead to irreverisble and harmful consequences as shown in the promotion of prescription drug abuse, anorexia, and online dating in Instagram advertisements tailored towards minors.
- Seeing as the company's revenue is generated from their large user base, it is confusing as to why they would harm their main income source by not carefully ensuring quality control of the content they promote.

#### Conclusion
**Thesis restated:**
- Incidents like Frances' testimony have started the scrutinization of Meta and their questionable practices.

**Body 1 restated:**
- First, their lack of transparency with their mistakes and failures pose as hurdles for the company to overcome to ensure trust.

**Body 2 restated:**
- Second, their capitalistic views sacrifice human sanity and wellbeing for profit.

**Thought-provoking:**
- As events like these, 
