---
title: EDUC100W TaC Reading Response Rough Draft
---
As Kai and Nicole mentioned contrasting experiences with how their teachers affected their interest in a subject, I couldn't help but reflect on the influence my twelfth grade English teacher had on my learning. His humorous yet explorative seminars were engaging and informative which helped me stay immersed during a rather discouraging time of hybrid learning. However, although he taught the English curriculum quite well, there was something of greater personal importance taught in his class seminars.

Despite being his own unique being with his own set of experiences and traits vastly different from mine, his teaching resonated within me as if he truly did know me inside out. Although "[t]eachers can at most try and hope, but they cannot force the gift upon their students ", his innovative efforts during discussions to provide intrusions and thought-provoking questions made receiving his gift  irresistible, which in turn profoundly influenced my enthusiasm and perspective on learning (Biesta, 21). As I wrote in my end-of-the-year reflection in the class:

> Critical thinking, concisely and/or creatively developing and supporting your ideas, learning more the world and the experiences and ideas of others, being able to partake in discussions, all of these different skills incorporated into ELA will never disappear from my life. It's profoundly changed my character, knowledge, and my mindset on learning as a whole.

A STEM student who used to solely focus on memorizing definitions and solution steps became curious and open-minded towards the innumerable abstract concepts and areas that exist on this earth, fascinated during the analysis of literature and the themes within them. Through his teaching, he secretly prioritized and facilitated a student's capabilities as a learning outcome, encouraging some distinctive features of the four capacities mentioned in Biesta's *Reinventing the Curriculum*. Aside from my obvious manifestation as a "successful learner", I've also developed a confident individual's sense of integrity and self-awareness, a responsible citizen's respect and curiosity for different beliefs and cultures, and an effective contributor's enterprising and critical attitude, all without explicit intention.

Thus, I've realized that no amount of changes or proposals in the curriculum can help students internalize such capacities and skills better than the intimate faciliatation a teacher provides. Unlike the highly disliked requirements and projects imposed upon by the BC school curriculum, a teacher's connection and inspiration upon their students is the key to naturally integrating these proposed values into an educational environment. A curriculum cannot best accomodate for a class' uniqueness and needs, but a teacher can adapt whenever needed, providing the intrusions and torpification necessary to guide a class into meaningful classroom experiences and lessons.

