Status:
Tags: [[My Inspirational Reflections]]
Links: [[020 School MOC]]
___
# Personal ELA Recap

1.  - I thoroughly enjoyed hearing the opinions and ideas of others, as it helped denounced my ignorance, promoting curiosity and humility instead
	-  The compassion and uniqueness of every teacher has blessed me with new understandings of myself and life
2. If I were to answer this question mid-way through the year, I probably would have said research essays, but now, I'm not too sure. Actually, the one thing I disliked was the repetition of certain teachings, like how we're taught how to construct essays, look at different lenses, use noodletools, every year. It used up time that could have been spent for more learning.
3. It's hard for me to exclusively choose one book to be considered "the best", as they all have had their part in shaping my current worldview and knowledge. If I were to name some off the top of my head, they would probably be Fahrenheit 451, Sun of a Distant Land, Aristotle and Dante discover the Secrets of the Universe, and Hamlet. At first I barely found much connection with Montag's journey, but looking back on it, I wish I had tried to better understand the story to internalize its message. It was my first year of advanced ELA and I had done a decent job of writing an essay (I'll always remember Mrs. O acknowledging my work to the whole class :,)), but I didn't truly incorporate the ideas into my life. I'm already content with my life and grades, but if I had adopted my learning mindset earlier on, I wonder how much my life would have changed. Sun of a Distant Land helped me acknowledge my parent's hardships when immigrating to Canada, and made me obsess less about the negative qualities of others. I was fond of Aristotle and Dante's poetry and search for identity. Despite only consuming a fraction of the play, Hamlet provided some insight for coping with and understanding death, a recurring theme that keeps occuping my mind before I go to bed. Now that I look back at it, the relevance of the themes in the books I read this year is kinda spooky :p

4.  Asking about the percentage of what I learned in ELA is a rather rigid question, and I personally don't know the answer to it. Critical thinking, concisely and/or creatively developing and supporting your ideas, learning more the world and the experiences and ideas of others, being able to partake in discussions, understanding english grammar, all of these different skills incorporated into ELA will never disappear from my life. It's profoundly changed my character, knowledge, and my mindset on learning as a whole. Thus, I think 100% of the stuff I learned from english is important, as that's what I made it. 
5.  In general, I want to remember the different ways teachers and classmates have uniquely influenced and taught me. Additionally, I want to remember my thoughts and experiences throughout high school, and commit to a lifetime of learning. It's crazy how a previously mind-numbing act like reading has become a daily habit of mine. I'll keep expanding my understanding of the world through the different stories and ideas I engross myself in, and one day, I'll provide my own contributions to society. 
___
References: