---
title: Limitless-1646197455602
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '42094'
  title: >-
    Limitless: Upgrade Your Brain, Learn Anything Faster, and Unlock Your
    Exceptional Life
  author: Jim Kwik
  asin: B082ZQDH63
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2021-10-01'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/71NApfLNYjL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 412
---
# Limitless
## Metadata
* Author: [Jim Kwik](https://www.amazon.com/Jim-Kwik/e/B083XFPN9B/ref=dp_byline_cont_ebooks_1)
* ASIN: B082ZQDH63
* ISBN: 9388302427
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B082ZQDH63
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63)

## Highlights
Our most precious gift is our brain. — location: [213](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=213) ^ref-61542

Fax

---
If our mindset is not aligned with our desires or goals, we will never achieve them. — location: [249](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=249) ^ref-46241

---
The second secret to a limitless life is your motivation. Jim outlines three key elements to motivation. First, your purpose. The reason why matters. I want to age well and am committed to lifting weights and getting stronger even though it is not my favorite thing to do. The purpose supersedes the discomfort. — location: [254](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=254) ^ref-52325

---
Limitless teaches us the five key methods to achieve whatever we want: Focus, Study, Memory Enhancement, Speed Reading, and Critical Thinking. — location: [262](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=262) ^ref-2432

---
Often when you put a label on someone or something, you create a limit—the label becomes the limitation. Adults have to be very careful with their external words because these quickly become a child’s internal words. — location: [383](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=383) ^ref-57133

---
“No problem can be solved from the same level of consciousness that created it.” — location: [466](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=466) ^ref-38588

---
What’s one of your dreams? One that is ever present, like a splinter in your brain? Imagine it in vivid detail. Visualize it. Feel it. Believe it. And work daily for it. — location: [528](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=528) ^ref-11544

---
A limit in your Mindset—you entertain a low belief in yourself, your capabilities, what you deserve, or what is possible. A limit in your Motivation—you lack the drive, purpose, or energy to take action. A limit in your Methods—you were taught and are acting on a process that is not effective to create the results you desire. — location: [557](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=557) ^ref-12323

---
Mindset (the WHAT): deeply held beliefs, attitudes, and assumptions we create about who we are, how the world works, what we are capable of and deserve, and what is possible. Motivation (the WHY): the purpose one has for taking action. The energy required for someone to behave in a particular way. Method (the HOW): a specific process for accomplishing something, especially an orderly, logical, or systematic way of instruction. — location: [564](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=564) ^ref-18535

---
There is a growing body of evidence that suggests that if we never let our mind wander or be bored for a moment, we pay a price—poor memory, mental fog, and fatigue. — location: [627](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=627) ^ref-36086

---
“Two out of three respondents associated information overload with tension with colleagues and loss of job satisfaction; 42 percent attributed ill-health to this stress, 61 percent said that they have to cancel social activities as a result of information overload and 60 percent that they are frequently too tired for leisure activities.” — location: [630](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=630) ^ref-21322

---
“Faced with an onslaught of information and information channels, they have become unable to develop simple routines for managing information. — location: [633](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=633) ^ref-50470

---
“Asking the brain to shift attention from one activity to another causes the prefrontal cortex and striatum to burn up oxygenated glucose, the same fuel they need to stay on task,” notes neuroscientist Daniel J. — location: [666](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=666) ^ref-7924

---
the reliance on technology to solve every question confuses people’s perception of their own knowledge and intelligence. — location: [709](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=709) ^ref-37222

---
Why, then, would you want to turn this liberating skill over to a device? Think about it: How do you feel when someone tries to impose their thinking on you? If a family member, friend, or colleague came up to you and said, “Don’t think about this; here’s your opinion,” you’d try to get away from that person as soon as you possibly could. Yet, when we immediately reach for the Internet to provide us with information, we’re essentially inviting the same thing. — location: [743](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=743) ^ref-52715

---
Like fire, technology has changed the course of human history. However, fire can cook your food or burn your home down—it’s all in how you use it. — location: [766](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=766) ^ref-17012

---
The acronym FASTER stands for: Forget, Act, State, Teach, Enter, Review. — location: [1009](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1009) ^ref-50373

---
The key to laser focus is to remove or forget that which distracts you. — location: [1011](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1011) ^ref-64563

---
What we think we know about the topic can stand in the way of our ability to absorb new information. — location: [1013](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1013) ^ref-28560

---
The second thing is to forget what’s not urgent or important. — location: [1018](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1018) ^ref-33386

---
And finally, forget about your limitations. — location: [1023](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1023) ^ref-34378

---
But learning is not a spectator sport. The human brain does not learn as much by consumption as it does by creation. — location: [1030](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1030) ^ref-25463

---
www.LimitlessBook.com/resources — location: [1033](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1033) ^ref-53399

---
Remember, all learning is state-dependent. Consciously choose states of joy, fascination, and curiosity. — location: [1048](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1048) ^ref-47331

---
learn with the intention of teaching the information to someone else. — location: [1053](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1053) ^ref-57583

---
You are better able to retain information by reviewing in multiple spread-out sessions. — location: [1071](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1071) ^ref-63986

---
Someone who is constantly asking themselves how to get people to like them can never truly be their true self because they will always be molding themselves to the preferences of the people around them, even if they’re not aware of it. — location: [1135](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1135) ^ref-55417

---
KWIK START What is one dominant question you ask yourself? Write it down. — location: [1157](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1157) ^ref-23397

---
Because people typically don’t ask enough questions when they read, they compromise their focus, understanding, and retention. — location: [1159](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1159) ^ref-20536

---
How can I use this? Why must I use this? When will I use this? — location: [1164](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1164) ^ref-42727

---
How many of my perceived constraints are nothing more than LIEs and BS? — location: [1199](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1199) ^ref-36936

---
When we take responsibility for something, we are imbued with great power to make things better. — location: [1212](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1212) ^ref-54975

---
“If we get a handle on our icebergs, we gain an enormous amount of control over our feelings and our lives. Melt an iceberg and all the downstream events it causes get washed away as well.”2 — location: [1333](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1333) ^ref-48115

---
There are clear connections between positive thinking and physical health. — location: [1385](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1385) ^ref-24611

---
So, how do you minimize limiting beliefs and develop a superhero mindset? To me, there are three keys. Key 1: Name Your Limiting Beliefs — location: [1402](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1402) ^ref-2647

---
So, listen carefully every time you find yourself using phrases like “I can’t,” “I’m not,” or “I don’t.” You’re sending messages to yourself that are affecting how you think about your life in general, even if what you’re beating yourself up over is something specific and seemingly not important to how you define yourself. — location: [1411](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1411) ^ref-6372

---
Key 2: Get to the Facts — location: [1422](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1422) ^ref-41169

---
So, when you’re examining the facts behind your limiting beliefs, be sure to consider two things: whether there is in reality any evidence to prove that you are truly hampered in this area and whether even that evidence was tainted by the noise in your head. Key 3: Create a New Belief — location: [1441](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1441) ^ref-21869

---
as long as you believe that your inner critic is the voice of the true you, the wisest you, it’s always going to guide you. — location: [1455](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1455) ^ref-35136

---
The better you become at distinguishing this voice from the real you, the better you’ll be at preventing limiting beliefs from getting in your way. — location: [1460](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1460) ^ref-3404

---
there’s lots of evidence to support the connection between mindset and accomplishment. — location: [1464](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1464) ^ref-15209

---
If we let negative emotions (such as limiting beliefs) control us, we’re regularly operating in survival mode and therefore confined to a reduced range of possibilities. — location: [1472](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1472) ^ref-12139

---
A child who runs around outside, swinging on branches and playing with friends, develops the ability to move athletically (physical skills), the ability to play with others and communicate with a team (social skills), and the ability to explore and examine the world around them (creative skills). In this way, the positive emotions of play and joy prompt the child to build skills that are useful and valuable in everyday life. . . . The happiness that promoted the exploration and creation of new skills has long since ended, but the skills themselves live on. — location: [1483](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1483) ^ref-54588

---
positive emotions: (i) broaden people’s attention and thinking; (ii) undo lingering negative emotional arousal; (iii) fuel psychological resilience; (iv) build consequential personal resources; (v) trigger upward spirals towards greater well-being in the future; and (vi) seed human flourishing. The theory also carries an important prescriptive message. People should cultivate positive emotions in their own lives and in the lives of those around them, not just because doing so makes them feel good in the moment, but also because doing so transforms people for the better and sets them on paths toward flourishing and healthy longevity.9 — location: [1491](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1491) ^ref-19462

---
LIE NO. 1: INTELLIGENCE IS FIXED — location: [1520](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1520) ^ref-5946

---
Few of us consciously think about our restrictions or the restrictions we believe others have. — location: [1532](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1532) ^ref-14527

---
It’s extremely difficult to accomplish something when you don’t believe it can be done in the first place. — location: [1534](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1534) ^ref-27532

---
With the fixed mindset, things are the way they are—we are powerless to change them. With the growth mindset, we have the ability to improve anything. — location: [1543](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1543) ^ref-23229

---
“A belief in inborn gifts and limits is much gentler on the psyche: The reason you aren’t a great opera singer is because you can’t be one. That’s simply the way you were wired. Thinking of talent as innate makes our world more manageable, more comfortable. It relieves a person of the burden of expectation.”8 Your intelligence is not only malleable but dependent on your ability to cultivate a growth mindset. — location: [1569](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1569) ^ref-37358

---
a fixed mindset usually shows up in your language. Maybe you say to yourself, “I’m not good at reading.” This kind of statement implies that you believe this is a fixed situation and that your skills can’t be improved. Instead, try saying something like “This is something I’m not good at yet.” This shift in language can be applied to anything you want to improve. — location: [1573](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1573) ^ref-40526

---
Here’s the truth: It’s not how smart you are; it’s how you are smart. There are multiple types of intelligence (more on this later). Like so many things, intelligence is a combination of attitudes and actions, and is dependent on context. New belief: Intelligence is fluid. — location: [1577](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1577) ^ref-31054

---
LIE NO. 2: WE ONLY USE 10 PERCENT OF OUR BRAINS — location: [1580](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1580) ^ref-56807

---
New belief: I am learning to use my whole brain in the best way possible. — location: [1621](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1621) ^ref-21299

---
Mistakes don’t mean failure. Mistakes are a sign that you are trying something new. You might think you have to be perfect, but life is not about comparing yourself to anyone else; it’s about measuring yourself compared to who you were yesterday. When you learn from your mistakes, they have the power to turn you into something better than you were before. — location: [1647](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1647) ^ref-41858

---
Also, remember that you are not your mistakes. Making a mistake doesn’t mean anything about you as a person. It’s easy to jump to the conclusion that you’re inherently worthless, but you make mistakes; mistakes don’t make you. Place them under your feet and use them as stepping stones to rise to the next level. It’s not how we make mistakes, but how we deal with them that defines us. — location: [1650](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1650) ^ref-63103

---
New belief: There is no such thing as failure. Only failure to learn. — location: [1653](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1653) ^ref-23512

---
Here’s the truth: Knowledge is not power. It only has the potential to be power. You can read this book and learn everything in it, but if you don’t take it and apply the knowledge, it will be useless. — location: [1669](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1669) ^ref-34749

---
Don’t promise, prove. Your results will speak for themselves. New belief: Knowledge × Action = Power — location: [1672](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1672) ^ref-59275

---
The key is taking small, simple steps. Think about a stonecutter. The stonecutter may sit there and hammer away at his block of stone for what feels like an eternity, making only small chips and dents here and there. But in one moment, the stone will crack open. Was it the one time that did it? No—it was all the sustained effort that prepared the stone to split. — location: [1702](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1702) ^ref-37527

---
Approach your learning like a stonecutter. It will require you to cultivate patience, to have a positive attitude, and to be adaptive to your own needs. If you are the kind of learner who does best with a book in your hands, that’s fantastic. But if you already know that doesn’t work for you, why keep trying the same thing? Look for other ways to learn that do work for you. — location: [1704](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1704) ^ref-30510

---
You must have the patience to consistently come back at it again and again. When you do, you will not only reap the rewards of your hard-earned knowledge, but you’ll be a better person — location: [1708](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1708) ^ref-6324

---
Here’s the truth: Sometimes it is hard to learn new things. What’s more accurate is to understand that learning is a set of methods, a process that can certainly be easier when you know how to learn. New belief: When you learn new ways how to learn, the challenge of learning new things can be fun, easier, and more enjoyable. — location: [1710](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1710) ^ref-9774

---
LIE NO. 6: THE CRITICISM OF OTHER PEOPLE MATTERS — location: [1713](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1713) ^ref-37194

---
The biggest travesty in the world is people preventing and limiting themselves from expressing who they really are because they’re afraid of what other people think.” — location: [1721](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1721) ^ref-53959

---
Part of being limitless is learning to let go of the fear of criticism from other people. — location: [1731](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1731) ^ref-26762

---
Here’s the truth: Creating the life you want can be scary. But you know what’s scarier? Regret. One day we will take our final breaths and not one of other people’s opinions or your fears will matter. What will matter is how we lived. Don’t take criticism from someone you wouldn’t take advice from. People will doubt you and criticize you no matter what you do. You will never know your true potential until you break the unfair judgements you place on yourself. Don’t allow other people’s opinions and expectations to run or ruin your life. New belief: It’s not your job to like, love, or respect me. It’s mine. — location: [1745](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1745) ^ref-20603

---
LIE NO. 7: GENIUS IS BORN — location: [1750](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1750) ^ref-34422

---
Through deep practice, ignition, and master coaching, anyone can develop a talent so deep that it looks like genius. — location: [1792](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1792) ^ref-9564

---
Here’s the truth: Genius leaves clues. There is always a method behind what looks like magic. New belief: Genius is not born; it’s made through deep practice. — location: [1803](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1803) ^ref-54175

---
My friend, entrepreneur Tom Bilyeu, hates working out, but he has a clear and compelling reason to do so, so he does it every morning. I really don’t like taking cold showers, but I do it daily (I’ll explain why in Chapter 8). — location: [1833](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1833) ^ref-60378

---
Here’s the formula: Motivation = Purpose × Energy × S3 — location: [1839](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1839) ^ref-49203

---
How do certain defining phrases determine who you are? How do your values define you? What does your sense of purpose say about who you are? — location: [1853](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1853) ^ref-33459

---
Start with Why by Simon Sinek, — location: [1886](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1886) ^ref-41524

---
SMART goals. Yes, this is an acronym: S is for Specific: Your goal should be well defined. Don’t say you want to be rich; say you want to make a certain amount of money. M is for Measurable: If you can’t measure your goal, you can’t manage it. Getting fit isn’t measurable—running a six-minute mile is. A is for Actionable: You wouldn’t drive to a new town without asking for directions. Develop the action steps to achieve your goal. R is for Realistic: If you’re living in your parents’ basement, it’s hard to become a millionaire. Your goals should challenge and stretch you, but not so much that you give up on them. T is for Time-based: The phrase, “A goal is a dream with a deadline” comes to mind. Setting a time to complete your goal makes you that much more likely to reach it. — location: [1896](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1896) ^ref-62070

---
To get your goals out of your head and into your hands, make sure they fit with your emotions—with your HEART: H is for Healthy: How can you make sure your goals support your greater well-being? Your goals should contribute to your mental, physical, and emotional health. E is for Enduring: Your goals should inspire and sustain you during the difficult times when you want to quit. A is for Alluring: You shouldn’t always have to push yourself to work on your goals. They should be so exciting, enticing, and engaging that you’re pulled toward them. R is for Relevant: Don’t set a goal without knowing why you’re setting it. Ideally, your goals should relate to a challenge you’re having, your life’s purpose, or your core values. T is for Truth: Don’t set a goal just because your neighbor is doing it or your parents expect it of you. Make sure your goal is something you want, something that remains true to you. If your goal isn’t true to you, you’re far more likely to procrastinate and sabotage yourself. — location: [1905](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1905) ^ref-11084

---
Knowing your purpose in life helps you live with integrity. — location: [1915](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1915) ^ref-64889

---
Your life purpose consists of the central motivating aims of your life—the reasons you get up in the morning. Purpose can guide life decisions, influence behavior, shape goals, offer a sense of direction, and create meaning. — location: [1917](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1917) ^ref-33332

---
passion is what lights you up inside. — location: [1936](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1936) ^ref-38609

---
Purpose is what you’re here to share with the world. It’s how you use your passion. — location: [1939](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1939) ^ref-15608

---
They say the two most powerful words in the English language are the shortest: “I am.” Whatever you put after those two words determines your destiny. — location: [1953](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1953) ^ref-54337

---
You can set up the most well-thought-out habits, but if your values are not in alignment with the ultimate goal, you’re not going to do it. — location: [1972](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1972) ^ref-39494

---
When we’re unaware of our values and the values of the people closest to us, it creates a space for conflict to arise; — location: [1981](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1981) ^ref-56969

---
Reasons that are tied to your purpose, identity, and values will sufficiently motivate you to act, — location: [1991](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=1991) ^ref-17581

---
Right now, stop and consider three reasons that you want to learn better. Your reasons should be concrete, — location: [2006](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2006) ^ref-44632

---
big part of self-love is being protective of your time and energy. Setting boundaries around your time, emotions, mental health, and space is incredibly vital at any time, but especially when you don’t sleep. When you lack any necessary fuel, such as sleep or food, your resources aren’t as abundant as they are at other times, so protecting what you have becomes very important. — location: [2010](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2010) ^ref-9832

---
Motivation comes from purpose, fully feeling and associating with the consequences of our actions (or inactions). — location: [2022](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2022) ^ref-20852

---
If you’re trying to force motivation, but you haven’t addressed these invisible, limiting identities, you won’t get very far. When you feel stuck, come back to the way your goal fits into your values, and then ask yourself what needs to be brought back into alignment. — location: [2050](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2050) ^ref-51846

---
Going back to the previous chapter’s list of the seven lies that hold you back, perhaps the eighth lie is that you have motivation —that you wake up and feel motivated every day. The reality is that you do motivation. Ultimately, motivation is a set of habits and routines, guided by your values and your identity, that you carry out every day. — location: [2052](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2052) ^ref-28820

---
Write down a list of your most common “I am” statements. How do you feel about the ways in which these statements define you? Create a list of the things you value the most. Now prioritize that list and think about how this aligns with your definition of yourself. Get into the habit of asking the question “why” before you do anything. — location: [2058](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2058) ^ref-42288

---
How do you make sure your brain is as healthy and energized as it can be? What should I make sure to have in my diet if I want my brain to be at its strongest? How do I consistently get a good night’s sleep? — location: [2066](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2066) ^ref-51114

---
motivation is all about energy management and optimization. — location: [2073](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2073) ^ref-671

---
Here are my 10 recommendations for generating limitless brain energy. — location: [2073](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2073) ^ref-22441

---
1. A GOOD BRAIN DIET — location: [2076](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2076) ^ref-62881

---
Since we know for sure that there’s a direct connection between a good diet and a healthy brain, it’s essential that you feed your brain with the best food nature has to offer. — location: [2085](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2085) ^ref-53343

---
because there’s evidence to show that your brain runs very well with a little bit of dark chocolate in the mix. — location: [2089](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2089) ^ref-61796

---
THE TOP 10 BRAIN FOODS Avocados: They provide monounsaturated fat, which helps to maintain healthy blood flow. Blueberries: They protect your brain from oxidative stress and reduce the effects of brain aging. There have also been studies that show they can help with memory. Broccoli: A great source of vitamin K, which is known to improve cognitive function and memory. Dark chocolate: This helps your focus and your concentration and stimulates endorphins. Chocolate also has flavonoids, which have been shown to improve cognitive function. The darker here the better, as the darkest chocolate has the least sugar, and we’ve already talked about how sugar is something to eat sparingly. Eggs: They provide memory-improving and brain-boosting choline. Green leafy vegetables: These are good sources of vitamin E, which reduces the effects of brain aging, and folate, which has been shown to improve memory. Salmon, Sardines, Caviar: They’re rich in omega-3 essential fatty acids, which help reduce the effects of brain aging. Turmeric: It helps reduce inflammation and boost antioxidant levels while also improving your brain’s oxygen intake. There’s also some indication that turmeric helps reduce cognitive decay. Walnuts: These nuts provide high levels of antioxidants and vitamin E that protect your neurons and protect against brain aging. They also contain high levels of zinc and magnesium, which are really good for your mood. Water: Your brain is about 80 percent water. Dehydration can cause brain fog, fatigue, and slower reaction and thinking speed. Studies show that well-hydrated people score better on brainpower tests. I — location: [2094](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2094) ^ref-46506

---
Ingredients: 2-inch piece of ginger, peeled and cut into slices 2-inch piece of turmeric, peeled and cut into slices (note: this will stain, so watch clothes and countertops) 4 cups filtered water organic green tea (loose or plastic-free tea bags for 2 servings) ½ organic lemon, juiced Dash of black pepper Raw honey (optional) Place the turmeric, ginger, and water into a small saucepan. Bring to a slow simmer on medium-high heat. Add the green tea and simmer for at least 5 minutes. Remove from the heat. Add the lemon juice, dash of black pepper, and honey (if using). Strain and serve hot. Avoid eating for 20 minutes after drinking this tonic. — location: [2114](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2114) ^ref-32957

---
MORNING MAGIC SMOOTHIE Serves 1 Ingredients: ½ cup frozen wild blueberries ½ cup chopped jicama (peel removed) Big handful of organic spinach (you can add more, too!) 2 tablespoons hemp seeds 1 teaspoon MCT oil 1 teaspoon organic spirulina powder ½ cup unsweetened coconut water ½ cup unsweetened almond milk Ice (optional) Add all ingredients to a blender, blend, and start your day with brain and body fuel! BRAIN BOOST SALAD Serves 2 For the salad: 2 cups organic arugula 2 cups organic spinach ¼ cup pomegranate seeds ¼ cup raw walnuts, chopped 1 avocado, sliced 4 organic eggs, boiled then sliced when cool (if vegan, replace eggs with 2 tablespoons hemp seeds and 1 tablespoon pumpkin seeds) For the dressing: 3 tablespoons raw apple cider vinegar ¼ cup extra virgin olive oil ½ lemon squeezed 1 tablespoon raw honey ¼ teaspoon Himalayan sea salt 2 tsp black sesame seeds (for garnish) Place all salad dressing ingredients (except sesame seeds) into a bowl or mixing container and blend/shake well. Set aside. Add the arugula, spinach, pomegranate seeds, and walnuts to a large salad bowl. Pour salad dressing on top of the salad and mix together. Transfer the mixed salad onto two plates. Top each salad with ½ sliced avocado and 2 sliced eggs. Garnish with sesame seeds. Enjoy! EASY ROASTED SALMON & BROCCOLI WITH SWISS CHARD Serves 2 Ingredients: 2 tablespoons of fresh lemon juice 2 teaspoon of chopped garlic 5 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil, divided 2 salmon fillets, preferably wild not farmed (4 to 6 ounces each) 2 to 4 slices of lemon 1 large head of organic broccoli, chopped into bite-sized florets (3 to 4 cups) 2 teaspoons Himalayan sea salt, divided 1 small shallot, finely chopped 1 small bunch organic Swiss chard or rainbow chard, finely chopped 1 teaspoon organic mustard seed powder Line a large sheet pan with parchment paper and preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Mix the lemon juice, chopped garlic, and 2 tablespoons olive oil in a small bowl. Lay the salmon down in the middle of the sheet pan and pour the lemon–garlic–olive oil mixture on top of each fillet evenly. Then place the lemon slices on top of each fillet. Mix the broccoli florets, 2 tablespoons olive oil, and 1 teaspoon sea salt together in a large bowl. Place the mixture around each salmon fillet on the sheet pan. Place in the preheated oven and bake for 20 minutes. While the salmon and broccoli are baking, heat the remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil on low heat in a skillet. Add the chopped shallot, stirring often until clear and cooked. Add the Swiss chard with 2 tablespoons water to the skillet and cook for 3 to 5 minutes, stirring occasionally until the chard is softened. Remove from heat. Add the salmon, broccoli, and chard to two serving plates. Sprinkle the broccoli with mustard seed powder to boost anti-inflammatory benefits. Serve and enjoy! COCOA-CINNAMON-GINGER “HOT CHOCOLATE” Serves 2 Ingredients: 4 cups unsweetened almond or coconut milk 2-inch ginger piece, peeled and… — location: [2126](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2126) ^ref-65138

Recipes

---
2. BRAIN… — location: [2185](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2185) ^ref-44184

---
For a list and links to my favorite brain supplements, go to www.LimitlessBook.com/resources. — location: [2196](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2196) ^ref-2029

---
3. EXERCISE — location: [2198](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2198) ^ref-19420

---
10 minutes of aerobic exercise a day can have enormous benefits. — location: [2207](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2207) ^ref-19754

---
Set your phone alarm to remind yourself to move for a few minutes every hour. — location: [2210](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2210) ^ref-29849

---
4. KILLING ANTS — location: [2211](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2211) ^ref-24135

---
ANTs are “automatic negative thoughts” — location: [2217](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2217) ^ref-62989

---
If you fight for your limitations, you get to keep them. If you regularly tell yourself that you can’t do something, or that you’re too old to do something, or that you don’t have the smarts to do something, you won’t do that thing. Only when you move on from this kind of destructive self-talk can you truly accomplish what you want to accomplish. KWIK — location: [2222](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2222) ^ref-32067

---
5. A CLEAN ENVIRONMENT — location: [2227](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2227) ^ref-23523

---
6. A POSITIVE PEER GROUP — location: [2239](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2239) ^ref-9369

---
A recent Temple University study showed that people (specifically teenagers in this study) act differently when they are alone than they do when they are with others. — location: [2243](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2243) ^ref-65010

---
7. BRAIN PROTECTION — location: [2254](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2254) ^ref-21502

---
8. NEW LEARNING — location: [2260](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2260) ^ref-44869

---
9. STRESS MANAGEMENT — location: [2269](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2269) ^ref-28783

---
10. SLEEP — location: [2283](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2283) ^ref-40650

---
If you want better focus, you need to get good sleep. If you want to be a clearer thinker, you need to get good sleep. If you want to make better decisions or have a better memory, you need to get good sleep. — location: [2284](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2284) ^ref-30773

---
sleep actually functions as a sort of laundry cycle for the brain, where during sleep, blood vessels (and lymphatic channels) in the brain hyperperfuse and flush out metabolic buildup from the day and remove neurotoxins and distribute components that enhance cellular repair.” — location: [2299](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2299) ^ref-41900

---
Reid and others found that aerobic exercise had strong positive results on a group of participants who’d previously regularly encountered sleep problems. — location: [2319](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2319) ^ref-38672

---
The benefits of meditation are numerous (and there are many, many books out there that detail them), including everything from boosting immune function to decreasing anxiety to actually increasing your gray matter. One of those many benefits is helping with insomnia. — location: [2341](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2341) ^ref-13205

---
You’re not caught up in your thoughts, but you’re in a process of observing that you’re thinking. You begin to recognize that you can have control over your thoughts and that you can choose what you are thinking.” — location: [2355](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2355) ^ref-9364

---
Zeigarnik effect—that uncompleted tasks created a level of tension that keeps that task at the front of our minds until it is completed. — location: [2388](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2388) ^ref-63802

---
Feeling bad about your lack of progress is likely to make it more difficult for you to stop procrastinating. So, give yourself a break. Beating yourself up isn’t going to improve anything, and, since you’re reading this book now, you’re already taking steps to avoid procrastinating in the future. — location: [2409](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2409) ^ref-5070

---
In my experience, the best way to deal with this is to find a way to break the task into bite-size pieces, which lead to habits that lead toward success. Circling back to the Zeigarnik effect, every time you complete one of these smaller tasks, you get to take that weight off your mind. And as each of these subtasks is finished, you’re that much closer to completing the task overall. — location: [2411](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2411) ^ref-8080

---
Podcast guest Dr. B. J. Fogg, the founder and director of the Behavior Design Lab at Stanford University and the author of Tiny Habits, — location: [2414](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2414) ^ref-5074

---
only three things can change a person’s behavior long term. One is to have an epiphany, — location: [2416](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2416) ^ref-49738

---
Another is to change your environment, — location: [2417](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2417) ^ref-49524

---
The third is to, as Dr. Fogg puts it, “take baby steps.”3 — location: [2418](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2418) ^ref-48349

---
One is that they present you with something achievable—a win on the way to reaching the championship of getting this job done. The other is that they all put you in a situation where you’re likely to get even more accomplished. — location: [2441](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2441) ^ref-22264

---
By breaking a task that you’re procrastinating about into smaller pieces, the path to getting it done becomes clear. — location: [2445](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2445) ^ref-31129

---
The best way to deal with the tension between what you want and what you’ve done so far to achieve it is to remember what the Zeigarnik effect teaches us. You’re not going to be able to ease your mind about this task until you complete it, so get yourself moving toward completion. Start somewhere. Anywhere. Even if you don’t have the energy or the motivation to get the entire thing done, get started on getting it done. You’ll be thankful for the relief. — location: [2446](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2446) ^ref-18590

---
Small simple steps repeated lead to habits. Our habits are a core part of who we are. — location: [2452](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2452) ^ref-32139

---
Charles Duhigg in his best-selling book, The Power of Habit. — location: [2462](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2462) ^ref-52419

---
James Clear, author of the best-selling book Atomic Habits, says, — location: [2467](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2467) ^ref-8871

---
habit loop as having four components: a cue, a craving, a response, and a reward. — location: [2474](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2474) ^ref-57007

---
cue is walking into the room and finding it dark. The craving is feeling that there would be some value in the room not being dark. The response is flipping on the light switch, and the reward is that the room is no longer dark. — location: [2475](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2475) ^ref-8228

---
“It’s much easier to start doing something new than to stop doing something habitual without a replacement behavior. — location: [2499](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2499) ^ref-9463

---
“For a target behavior to happen,” he notes, “a person must have sufficient motivation, sufficient ability, and an effective prompt. All three factors must be present at the same instant for the behavior to occur.” — location: [2513](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2513) ^ref-24873

---
Fogg identifies three key motivators: — location: [2520](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2520) ^ref-28488

---
when something is simple for us, we are considerably more likely to do it. He defines six categories of simplicity: — location: [2532](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2532) ^ref-30295

---
Time: We only perceive something to be simple if we have the time available to perform the function. Money: Similarly, if something stretches our financial resources, we do not consider it simple. Physical effort: We consider things that are physically easy for us to be simple. Brain cycles: Simple things don’t tax our thinking, and we shy away from things that require us to think too hard. Social deviance: This goes back to the acceptance motivation. A simple act fits into societal norms. Nonroutine: How far something is out of one’s normal routine will define its level of simplicity. — location: [2533](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2533) ^ref-1841

---
Prompts Finally, Fogg notes three types of prompts: Spark: A spark is a type of prompt that immediately leads to a form of motivation. For example, if opening your e-mail leads to a level of fear over what you might find there, you’re likely to adopt a habit that will change that fear. Facilitator: This type of prompt works when motivation is high, but ability is low. For example, if you want to use a certain kind of software on your computer but are tech-averse, a tool that makes that software easier for you to use is likely to cause you to adopt this behavior. Signal : In some cases, you’ll have both high motivation and high ability. The only other thing you need to make a behavior a habit is some kind of reminder or signal. If you love making brain smoothies, all you need is to walk into your kitchen in the morning and see the blender to prompt you to make one. — location: [2540](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2540) ^ref-25064

---
KWIK START Can you identify the habits you want to break? What is that one habit that’s holding you back from doing other important things in your day? Write it down, then identify the prompts that trigger you to perform that habit. — location: [2548](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2548) ^ref-5446

---
But how do you make something a habit? Just remember WIN: — location: [2553](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2553) ^ref-13006

---
W is for Want: Make sure you really want it. — location: [2554](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2554) ^ref-14277

---
I is for Innate: Does the new habit you’re trying to adopt align well with your innate abilities? — location: [2557](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2557) ^ref-32845

---
N is for Now: Create a prompt for yourself that encourages you to perform the new habit now. — location: [2560](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2560) ^ref-4804

---
He started reading books—the first being Mindset by Carol Dweck — location: [2574](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2574) ^ref-58695

---
baroque music to pace his reading — location: [2575](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2575) ^ref-52310

---
if you set up winning routines early in the day, you can benefit from what Tony Robbins calls “the science of momentum”: — location: [2582](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2582) ^ref-15475

---
Let me walk you through a typical morning. — location: [2588](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2588) ^ref-25746

---
Many geniuses throughout history have regularly accessed and often gleaned their best ideas and made their greatest discoveries from their dreams. — location: [2590](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2590) ^ref-56382

---
mnemonic technique designed to help you do so. Just think of the word DREAMS: — location: [2595](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2595) ^ref-46931

---
also have a glass of celery juice, — location: [2610](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2610) ^ref-41519

---
Check in on your dreams before you get out of bed. There’s so much gold to mine here, so I strongly recommend that you not skip this step. Get yourself hydrated and oxygenated. Nourish yourself with some of the brain foods mentioned in this chapter. Set a plan for the day. — location: [2630](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2630) ^ref-34582

---
KWIK START Create your new morning routine. Remember, it doesn’t have to be a lot. Even a simple three-step routine can help jump-start your morning. What are the three things you will always do when you first wake up to set up your day to win? Write them down. — location: [2637](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2637) ^ref-56563

---
Bolster your understanding of the habit loop by thinking about the four components of some of your most common habits, like making your breakfast or taking the dog for a walk. What’s the cue, the craving, the response, and the reward for each of these? Spend a few minutes thinking about a habit that you’d love to replace with a more constructive one. Using the Fogg Behavioral Model, what new behavior can you adopt that fits neatly into the model? Walk yourself through the process of starting a valuable new habit using WIN. — location: [2643](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2643) ^ref-34267

---
Why is flow so important to becoming limitless? How do I achieve a flow state? What are the key enemies of flow? — location: [2651](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2651) ^ref-33456

---
Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience, psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi describes — location: [2656](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2656) ^ref-61713

---
Dr. Csikszentmihalyi describes flow as having eight characteristics:2 Absolute concentration Total focus on goals The sense that time is either speeding up or slowing down A feeling of reward from the experience A sense of effortlessness The experience is challenging, but not overly so Your actions almost seem to be happening on their own You feel comfort with what you are doing As — location: [2660](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2660) ^ref-34589

---
the four stages of flow: — location: [2688](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2688) ^ref-59091

---
Stage 1: Struggle — location: [2689](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2689) ^ref-20786

---
Stage 2: Relaxation — location: [2692](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2692) ^ref-14077

---
Stage 3: Flow — location: [2695](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2695) ^ref-46717

---
Stage 4: Consolidation — location: [2698](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2698) ^ref-50752

---
KWIK START Have you ever experienced the flow state? Where were you? What were you doing? How did it feel? What did you achieve at the end of it? Visualize that state. Even if you can’t visualize, imagine that you can. — location: [2706](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2706) ^ref-1917

---
FINDING FLOW — location: [2709](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2709) ^ref-48827

---
1. Eliminate Distractions — location: [2711](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2711) ^ref-50039

---
It can take you up to 20 minutes to reconnect with what you’re doing after you’ve been distracted from doing it. — location: [2712](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2712) ^ref-55830

---
2. Give Yourself Enough Time — location: [2716](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2716) ^ref-31043

---
it takes about 15 minutes to achieve a flow state and that you don’t really hit your peak for closer to 45 minutes. — location: [2717](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2717) ^ref-13780

---
Plan to set aside at least 90 minutes, and ideally a full two hours. — location: [2718](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2718) ^ref-28676

---
3. Do Something You Love — location: [2719](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2719) ^ref-26525

---
4. Have Clear Goals — location: [2728](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2728) ^ref-53385

---
5. Challenge Yourself . . . A Little — location: [2736](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2736) ^ref-45283

---
Training yourself to achieve flow regularly and even in multiple sessions in the same day will have you performing like a superhero. — location: [2745](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2745) ^ref-17031

---
Here are the four supervillains you need to keep at bay if your flow is going to thrive: — location: [2747](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2747) ^ref-56369

---
1. Multitasking — location: [2748](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2748) ^ref-48544

---
The only way to vanquish the supervillain Multitask is to ignore him completely. — location: [2752](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2752) ^ref-36718

---
2. Stress — location: [2754](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2754) ^ref-25895

---
Make your space impenetrable by outside stressors so you can concentrate completely on the task at hand. — location: [2762](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2762) ^ref-1308

---
3. Fear of Failure — location: [2763](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2763) ^ref-24098

---
“Perfectionism reduces creativity and innovation,” — location: [2764](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2764) ^ref-60894

---
Psychology Today. — location: [2765](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2765) ^ref-54214

---
If you go into a task with the belief that you absolutely must perform this task perfectly and that failure will be devastating, you’re going to be so focused on not failing that you’ll never get into a state where you can truly excel. — location: [2768](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2768) ^ref-34739

---
4. Lack of Conviction — location: [2773](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2773) ^ref-47477

---
ask yourself these questions: Do I have the necessary skills to do this? Do I have all the information I need to do this? Do I have enough passion for this project to do this? If the answer to any of these is no, set the task aside until you can answer each of these questions in the affirmative. But if the answer to all three of these questions is yes, take this supervillain down and get into the flow. — location: [2779](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2779) ^ref-24466

---
The flow experience is one of the greatest highs any of us will ever experience. It is also fundamental to becoming limitless. — location: [2782](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2782) ^ref-60540

---
Reflect on a few times you’ve been in the flow. What were you doing? What was consistent about those experiences? How can you get back there more often? Take out your calendar and find a spot in the next few days where you can carve out 90 minutes to two hours. This needs to be a time when you can free yourself of all distractions. Now, what are you going to do with that time to dramatically boost your productivity? How often do you go into a project with one of the supervillains we talked about in this chapter stalking you? What can you do right now to defeat that supervillain before going into your next project? — location: [2784](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2784) ^ref-54453

---
In this section, you’re going to learn the science of accelerated learning and meta learning in five areas: focus, study, memory, speed reading, and thinking. — location: [2806](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2806) ^ref-14859

---
What can I learn from what I’m like when I’m most focused? How can I increase my ability to concentrate? How do I limit my distractions and calm my busy mind? — location: [2814](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2814) ^ref-56174

---
Focus allows us to train our brain power on a particular task to burn through that task. It’s amazing what we can accomplish when we’re focused. — location: [2829](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2829) ^ref-24677

---
KWIK START Rate your current level of concentration from 0 to 10. Now rate your desire to increase this level. Your concentration is like a muscle. You can train to become stronger with practice. — location: [2832](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2832) ^ref-48764

---
concentration is a critical component of anything you want to accomplish. — location: [2837](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2837) ^ref-5807

---
concentration is like a muscle that gets stronger the more you exercise it. “Concentration is something you can learn and something you can practice to get better at,” — location: [2841](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2841) ^ref-50771

---
“I define concentration as my ability to keep my awareness on one thing for an extended period of time. Every time my concentration drifts, I use my will power to bring my awareness back.” — location: [2846](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2846) ^ref-64311

---
To him, it isn’t your mind that’s moving; it’s your awareness. — location: [2849](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2849) ^ref-49840

---
If you’re having a conversation with someone, make a concerted effort to pay attention to nothing other than that conversation. — location: [2852](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2852) ^ref-17478

---
If you notice your awareness drifting away from the conversation, refocus your glowing ball of light. — location: [2853](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2853) ^ref-62468

---
If you make the commitment to practice concentration an hour or so a day, it will soon become second nature. — location: [2855](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2855) ^ref-51079

---
Whenever possible, try to do one thing at a time. — location: [2856](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2856) ^ref-30118

---
multitasking is a grossly inefficient way to get anything done. — location: [2857](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2857) ^ref-4817

---
Another key to boosting your concentration is de-cluttering your environment. — location: [2861](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2861) ^ref-28106

---
physical clutter in your surroundings competes for your attention, which results in decreased performance and increased anxiety and stress levels. — location: [2865](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2865) ^ref-22249

---
The Stress-Proof Brain. — location: [2881](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2881) ^ref-13754

---
College London, compared the brains of heavy media multitaskers with those of light media multitaskers and found that the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), which is involved in focus, was smaller among the former group. — location: [2889](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2889) ^ref-11681

---
it takes an average of 23 minutes and 15 seconds to get back to the task.”8 That’s more than 20 minutes every time you’re distracted—and how often are you distracted every day? — location: [2896](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2896) ^ref-60038

---
Tools like meditation, yoga, and certain martial arts can be tremendously valuable in helping you calm your busy mind. — location: [2898](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2898) ^ref-45764

---
Three important ones are: 1. Breathe — location: [2900](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2900) ^ref-59140

---
Method. It works like this: Exhale completely through your mouth, making a whoosh sound. Close your mouth and inhale quietly through your nose to a mental count of 4. Hold your breath for a count of 7. Exhale completely through your mouth, making a whoosh sound to a count of 8. — location: [2902](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2902) ^ref-3878

---
2. Do Something That Has Been Causing You Stress — location: [2907](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2907) ^ref-28548

---
things weighing on our minds are going to continue weighing on our minds until we deal with them. — location: [2909](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2909) ^ref-63706

---
KWIK START What is that one important thing that you’re avoiding that is affecting your focus? — location: [2913](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2913) ^ref-44278

---
3. Schedule Time for Distractions — location: [2915](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2915) ^ref-52807

---
KWIK START Schedule your next distraction time. — location: [2923](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2923) ^ref-3090

---
Unlimiting your focus is a key to unleashing your superpowers. When your mind is truly focused, when you’re completely throwing yourself at a task, you achieve at levels that are impossible when you’re distracted or divided in your thoughts. Before we move on from this chapter, let’s try a few things: Take a good look at your to-do list and identify the thing (or things) on it that is likely to invade your thoughts until you get it done. Formulate a plan for dealing with that task using some of the antiprocrastination tools you now have. Do something right now that changes your productivity environment so you can do a better job of staying on task. Practice a technique for calming your busy mind. — location: [2925](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2925) ^ref-9563

---
I’m going to be a lifelong student, how can I optimize my study time? Is cramming the best way to learn something? How do I become a better note-taker? — location: [2936](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2936) ^ref-10003

---
This scenario was so completely outlandish that I did the only thing I could do under the circumstances: I took the engagement. — location: [2955](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2955) ^ref-44280

---
KWIK START Think about a topic or subject you’d like to learn this month. How would you go about studying this topic? What’s your current approach or process? — location: [2970](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2970) ^ref-60707

---
there are four levels of competence or learning. The first, known as “unconscious incompetence,” is when you don’t know what you don’t know. — location: [2973](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2973) ^ref-6242

---
“conscious incompetence,” you’re aware of what you don’t know. — location: [2976](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2976) ^ref-24792

---
I would add a fifth level: true mastery. — location: [2987](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2987) ^ref-45410

---
you’re going to approach your goal of being a limitless learner, you’re going to want to make study a part of your entire life. — location: [2998](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=2998) ^ref-21192

---
here are seven of my favorite simple habits to unlimit your studies. Habit 1: Employ Active Recall — location: [3032](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3032) ^ref-1564

---
To employ active recall, do this: Review the material you are studying. Then close the book, turn off the video or lecture, and write down or recite everything you remember from what you just reviewed. Now, look at the material again. How much did you remember? — location: [3040](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3040) ^ref-5701

---
Habit 2: Employ Spaced Repetition — location: [3046](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3046) ^ref-23625

---
By spacing the intervals out, you’re further exercising these connections each time. It produces long-term, durable retention of knowledge and, in my experience, once people start using it, they swear by it.”5 — location: [3053](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3053) ^ref-15443

---
Spaced repetition seems to work most effectively when you can review the material at similar intervals. — location: [3056](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3056) ^ref-10245

---
Habit 3: Manage the State You’re In — location: [3060](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3060) ^ref-64020

---
the state you’re in when you perform any activity will have the greatest impact on your success. — location: [3061](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3061) ^ref-22681

---
Your posture also controls the state of your mind. Sit as if you’re about to learn the most crucial life-changing information. — location: [3065](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3065) ^ref-13705

---
When you sit straight, it also facilitates breathing and the circulation of necessary oxygen to your brain and the rest of your body. — location: [3067](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3067) ^ref-9064

---
KWIK START While you are sitting in a chair, slump over, look down, take short breaths, and put a frown on your face. Do this now. How motivated do you feel to achieve success? How productive do you think you are in this state? This is the posture a lot of students take while studying. Is it any wonder they dislike studying and have to work hard to achieve bare minimum results? Now sit up straight and smile. How much better do you feel? — location: [3069](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3069) ^ref-49670

---
Habit 4: Use Your Sense of Smell — location: [3073](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3073) ^ref-37741

---
The scent of rosemary has been shown to improve memory. Peppermint and lemon promotes concentration. — location: [3077](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3077) ^ref-14571

---
What this shows us is that smell is an enormously important, yet underused, memory tool. If a particular scent can rocket us back to our childhoods, a different scent can be used to accelerate our recall. — location: [3083](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3083) ^ref-27327

---
Habit 5: Music for the Mind — location: [3088](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3088) ^ref-49265

---
Baroque music seems to have some particularly valuable qualities. “Music stabilizes mental, physical and emotional rhythms to attain a state of deep concentration and focus in which large amounts of content information can be processed and learned,” — location: [3094](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3094) ^ref-17835

---
Habit 6: Listen with Your Whole Brain — location: [3103](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3103) ^ref-46986

---
There’s a very strong connection between listening and learning, and more than a quarter of us are auditory learners, meaning that the primary way in which we learn is through hearing something. — location: [3105](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3105) ^ref-63138

---
The Plateau Effect. — location: [3108](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3108) ^ref-62223

---
To help alleviate this problem, I’ve devised a tool that will help you listen with your whole brain. Just remember the acronym HEAR: — location: [3117](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3117) ^ref-1111

---
H is for Halt: — location: [3118](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3118) ^ref-28370

---
Remember that listening involves more than just the words a person is saying; vocal inflection, body language, facial expressions, and more create additional context and provide additional information. You can absorb all of this only if you halt everything else. — location: [3122](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3122) ^ref-14237

---
E is for Empathy: — location: [3124](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3124) ^ref-63264

---
Trying to understand where the speaker is coming from and why brings additional substance to what they might be saying and allows you to feel it from their perspective. — location: [3126](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3126) ^ref-7837

---
A is for Anticipate: — location: [3127](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3127) ^ref-43591

---
learning is state-dependent and that what you can learn from this speaker will become a long-term memory if you attach emotion to it. — location: [3128](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3128) ^ref-60909

---
Your enthusiasm for what you’re hearing will greatly increase your potential of truly hearing it. — location: [3129](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3129) ^ref-9877

---
R is for Review: — location: [3130](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3130) ^ref-50118

---
Ask clarifying questions or maybe even for a point to be repeated. If you’re in the position to take notes, do so. And afterward, reflect on what the speaker said. Paraphrase it in your mind and imagine yourself teaching it to someone else. — location: [3130](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3130) ^ref-27390

---
Habit 7: Take Note of Taking Notes — location: [3133](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3133) ^ref-25116

---
The ultimate advantage of taking notes is that they customize the information you need to retain to your vocabulary and your mode of thinking. At their best, notes allow you to organize and process information in a way that makes it most likely that you can use this information afterward. — location: [3135](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3135) ^ref-10384

---
First off, be sure that you understand the purpose for taking these notes. — location: [3141](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3141) ^ref-44410

---
By being clear on your intention with your notes, you are able to distinguish between information that is relevant to you and information that is not. — location: [3144](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3144) ^ref-48892

---
if you take notes with a goal in mind, every note you take will have relevance. — location: [3148](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3148) ^ref-47747

---
Once you’re clear on your goals, take an active approach to note-taking. Listen with the intention of getting exactly what you need, and write your notes in ways that will benefit your recall later. — location: [3149](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3149) ^ref-43168

---
Equally important is making sure that you use your own words wherever possible. — location: [3152](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3152) ^ref-18223

---
When you use your own words in your notes, you begin to process the information, and that greatly enhances learning. — location: [3158](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3158) ^ref-63018

---
We show that whereas taking more notes can be beneficial, laptop note takers’ tendency to transcribe lectures verbatim rather than processing information and reframing it in their own words is detrimental to learning.”12 — location: [3165](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3165) ^ref-48534

---
Most importantly, make sure you are really listening. — location: [3167](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3167) ^ref-44060

---
Take note of what’s being emphasized. Make sure you’re understanding the points the speaker is making and, if the opportunity is available, ask questions. — location: [3169](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3169) ^ref-27255

---
While you’re taking notes, use a method that I call “capture and create.” On the left side of the paper, you’re capturing, you’re taking notes; on the right side, you’re creating, you’re making notes. You’re writing your impression of what you’re capturing. How can I use this? Why must I use this? When will I use this? — location: [3171](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3171) ^ref-36620

---
After your note-taking session is over, review your notes immediately. — location: [3174](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3174) ^ref-13200

---
If you want to make sure you’re always getting the most from your note-taking, remember the mnemonic TIP: T is for Think: — location: [3178](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3178) ^ref-15126

---
Before you begin any session where you’re going to be taking notes, think about what you’re hoping to retain most from this session. — location: [3179](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3179) ^ref-45912

---
I is for Identify: — location: [3181](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3181) ^ref-49288

---
Listen carefully to the information being presented and identify what is most important in the context of your goal. — location: [3181](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3181) ^ref-59564

---
P is for Prioritize: As you review your notes after the presentation, prioritize the information that is most valuable to you, perhaps adding additional notes as necessary to make the priority information clearer or making an outline to highlight key points. — location: [3184](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3184) ^ref-60911

---
Find a music playlist that works for you. — location: [3189](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3189) ^ref-56893

---
Try out your new note-taking tools. Maybe go through this chapter again and take notes about it. — location: [3192](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3192) ^ref-26462

---
What can I do to improve my memory right away? How do I keep a big chunk of information in my memory? How can I easily access this information when I need it? — location: [3198](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3198) ^ref-459

---
Memory is arguably the most important part of the learning process. If you could not remember, then you could not learn anything. There is no knowledge without memory. But why do most people have less-than-ideal memory skills? I think it’s because of the way we were taught to memorize things, which was usually through rote memorization. — location: [3230](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3230) ^ref-51476

---
KWIK START How would you rate your memory right now? What aspects would you like to improve? Take our memory assessment at www.LimitlessBook.com/resources to understand more. — location: [3240](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3240) ^ref-17935

---
There’s no such thing as a good memory or a bad memory; there is only a trained memory and an untrained memory. — location: [3244](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3244) ^ref-1751

---
Moonwalking with Einstein: The Art and Science of Remembering Everything. — location: [3254](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3254) ^ref-38816

---
Dr. William R. Klemm, who we met in Chapter 12, gives us five reasons why improving memory is essential: Memorization is discipline for the mind. Much needed in an age when so many minds are lazy, distracted, have little to think about, or think sloppily. Memorization helps train the mind to focus and be industrious. — location: [3268](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3268) ^ref-13998

---
No, you can’t always “Google it.” Sometimes you don’t have access to the Internet. — location: [3271](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3271) ^ref-56725

---
Memorization creates the repertoire of what we think about. Nobody can think in a vacuum of information. To be an expert in any field requires knowledge that you already have. — location: [3274](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3274) ^ref-1446

---
We think with the ideas held in working memory, which can only be accessed at high speed from the brain’s stored memory.Understanding is nourished by the information you hold in working memory as you think. Without such knowledge, we have a mind full of mush. — location: [3276](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3276) ^ref-13043

---
The exercise of the memory develops learning and memory schema that promote improved ability to learn. — location: [3278](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3278) ^ref-16235

---
always remember MOM, a mnemonic device I created to kick up your memory instantly: M is for Motivation: — location: [3284](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3284) ^ref-22793

---
The simple fact is that we are considerably more likely to remember things that we are motivated to remember. — location: [3286](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3286) ^ref-7263

---
O is for Observation: — location: [3291](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3291) ^ref-31967

---
Most of the time, when we fail to remember something, the issue isn’t retention but rather attention. — location: [3294](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3294) ^ref-12545

---
If you’re serious about boosting your memory, condition yourself to be truly present in any situation where you want to remember something. — location: [3295](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3295) ^ref-41340

---
M is for Methods: — location: [3296](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3296) ^ref-38692

---
Make sure you’re always carrying these around in your mental toolkit, and be sure to employ them to the point where they become second nature. — location: [3297](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3297) ^ref-34644

---
The chances of remembering something increase dramatically if people can attach a reference point to the thing they are trying to remember. — location: [3300](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3300) ^ref-43708

---
When you hear that the man in the photo is a baker, that fact gets embedded in a whole network of ideas about what it means to be a baker: — location: [3306](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3306) ^ref-21711

---
The name Baker, on the other hand, is tethered only to a memory of the person’s face. — location: [3308](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3308) ^ref-45281

---
But when it comes to the man’s profession, there are multiple strings to reel the memory back in. — location: [3310](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3310) ^ref-32313

---
What the Baker/baker Paradox illustrates for us is that creating associations for ourselves is likely to boost our memories dramatically. — location: [3314](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3314) ^ref-40705

---
Most people find rote learning to be a very tedious and boring process. It taxes your mind and is extremely ineffective for remembering most things. — location: [3343](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3343) ^ref-3866

---
One of the reasons rote learning is inefficient is because it only involves a small part of your brain. You’re using a more analytical part of your brain to process information and store what you need to learn. — location: [3346](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3346) ^ref-57902

---
Now let’s try something else. Take a minute and stretch. Take a few deep breaths. Clear your mind and relax more with every breath that leaves your body. Just take a moment and relax. When you are done, continue. — location: [3365](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3365) ^ref-8522

---
KWIK START Without looking back, write the story down. — location: [3375](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3375) ^ref-62799

---
As you may be aware, we turned your list into a story. — location: [3376](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3376) ^ref-24945

---
Most people approach learning as a passive activity. They encounter information in books, notes, or lectures and if the material is absorbed, great! But if it is not, they feel that there is nothing they can do. — location: [3384](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3384) ^ref-17069

---
By taking a more active approach to learning, you will have greater results and the satisfaction that comes from involvement and personal awareness. — location: [3387](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3387) ^ref-23935

---
Learning passively is weak; active learning is strong. — location: [3388](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3388) ^ref-14678

---
Your visual memory is very powerful. By seeing the pictures a story paints and not just the words that represent those pictures, you create a stronger means by which to remember. — location: [3390](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3390) ^ref-64386

---
This is the key to memory and all of learning: In order to learn any new piece of information, it must be associated with something you already know. — location: [3396](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3396) ^ref-41061

---
Adding emotion makes something memorable. — location: [3407](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3407) ^ref-59570

---
If you can associate something with a place, you’re more likely to remember it. — location: [3411](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3411) ^ref-34205

---
Tell yourself out loud which of the words you remembered and why you think you remembered those words. Doing so will help you to understand how you memorize things. — location: [3428](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3428) ^ref-31573

---
The loci method, then, is a memory tool that aligns the things you want to remember with specific points or places that you know well. Here’s how I teach it: — location: [3461](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3461) ^ref-38832

---
also have a technique specifically geared to helping people remember names that you might find useful. The mnemonic here is BE SUAVE: — location: [3484](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3484) ^ref-31523

---
B is for Believe: Believing that you’re going to be able to do this is the essential first step. — location: [3485](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3485) ^ref-7243

---
E is for Exercise: As with the other tools in this book, doing this is going to take some practice, but you should be able to become very good at this very quickly. — location: [3487](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3487) ^ref-13085

---
S is for Say it: When you hear a person’s name for the first time, say it back. — location: [3488](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3488) ^ref-51297

---
U is for Use it: During the course of your conversation with this person, use their name. — location: [3490](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3490) ^ref-3237

---
A is for Ask: Ask where a person’s name came from. — location: [3491](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3491) ^ref-37161

---
V is for Visualization: Vision is an incredibly powerful memory tool, as we already saw with the loci method. — location: [3493](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3493) ^ref-29788

---
E is for End: When you part ways with that person, end your conversation by saying the person’s name. — location: [3495](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3495) ^ref-45749

---
BONUS TOOL 2: A QUICK WAY TO REMEMBER VOCABULARY AND LANGUAGES — location: [3497](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3497) ^ref-31690

---
you just now have a name or a vocabulary term for it. Word substitution is the process of turning intangible (hard to picture) information into an image that is more concrete and easy to visualize. Here are some examples of word substitutions: Nitrogen can be a knight — location: [3499](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3499) ^ref-40934

---
The main idea behind word substitution is coming up with a picture (or series of linked pictures) that sounds similar enough to remind you of the original word. — location: [3503](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3503) ^ref-61982

---
we tend to remember that which we create. — location: [3506](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3506) ^ref-26345

---
Cytology, the study of cells. You see a towel with a huge “G” (cytology) on it. You have always wanted one, so you take it, and you are thrown in a jail cell. Or you sigh, looking at your toe, in a low G (sigh toe low G), but this is not allowed and you are put in a cell and forced to study. Even though this is thoroughly bizarre, it is very memorable, and it works! — location: [3507](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3507) ^ref-39679

---
Lenient, compassionate, gentle. Picture a leaning ant (an ant leaning). The ant is leaning on a clean wall and getting it dirty. His mother, instead of being angry, is compassionate and gentle. — location: [3509](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3509) ^ref-58439

---
Think about ways to provide yourself with greater motivation to remember. Simply thinking it would be nice to have a better memory is probably not enough. — location: [3543](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3543) ^ref-41382

---
Consider ways in which you can try to be less influenced by distractions when you’re in a situation where remembering something might be important. — location: [3544](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3544) ^ref-55766

---
Take each of the tools I’ve provided in this chapter out for a spin. There’s a good chance you’ll see a noticeable difference in your memory right away. — location: [3546](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3546) ^ref-21809

---
Why is it so important to read? How do I increase my reading focus and comprehension? How can I get more out of every reading experience? — location: [3552](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3552) ^ref-19701

---
Studies show that there is a direct relationship between your ability to read and your success in life. — location: [3561](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3561) ^ref-36705

---
HOW READING MAKES YOUR BRAIN LIMITLESS Any plan to make your learning limitless needs to include reading. Just as memory is foundational to nearly all brain function, reading is foundational to nearly all learning. — location: [3587](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3587) ^ref-42967

---
is nearly impossible to make learning a dynamic and renewable part of your life without a dedicated approach to reading. Here’s why this is true: — location: [3590](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3590) ^ref-52748

---
Reading kicks your brain into gear. When you read, you’re using your brain for many functions at once—which is a vigorous and rewarding workout. — location: [3592](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3592) ^ref-39106

---
reading gives you an incomparable level of mental exercise, and the brain is always a “muscle” that gets stronger the more you challenge it. — location: [3596](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3596) ^ref-15300

---
Reading improves your memory. Because you’re giving your brain such a great workout when you read, your brain functions at a higher level. One significant benefit of this is with regard to memory. — location: [3598](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3598) ^ref-45639

---
Reading improves your focus. One of the things we do when we sit down with a book or even spend some dedicated time with a newspaper is train our focus on this one thing. — location: [3603](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3603) ^ref-14815

---
Reading improves your vocabulary. Some people just sound smarter. — location: [3606](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3606) ^ref-49392

---
Reading improves your imagination. If you were ever given a story prompt at school or at work, you know that it is often easier to think creatively when using a tool to get started. — location: [3611](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3611) ^ref-10177

---
A great imagination helps you see more possibilities in your life, and reading keeps your imagination on high alert. — location: [3614](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3614) ^ref-27924

---
Reading improves understanding. Learning comes in many forms, and learning as a success tool has many elements. — location: [3616](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3616) ^ref-34893

---
Reading exposes you to lives you’d never known before, experiences you’d never imagined, and modes of thinking far different from your own. All of this builds both your empathy for others and your understanding of how the world works beyond yourself. — location: [3617](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3617) ^ref-3225

---
KWIK START If you can read faster with greater comprehension and enjoyment, what books would you start reading this month? Create a list of three books you want to start reading. — location: [3620](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3620) ^ref-25864

---
KWIK START If you can save two hours each day, what would you do with this extra time? Take a moment to write down how you would spend those extra two hours daily. — location: [3637](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3637) ^ref-60582

---
Your reading efficiency is made up of two main parts: Your reading rate (speed) and reading comprehension (understanding). — location: [3650](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3650) ^ref-6861

---
three of the barriers and obstacles that prevent us from reading more quickly. 1. Regression — location: [3652](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3652) ^ref-2571

---
Regression seriously disrupts the reading process as well as slows down reading speed. — location: [3657](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3657) ^ref-22477

---
Outdated Skills Reading is not so much a measure of intelligence as it is a skill and with any skill, it can be learned and improved. — location: [3659](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3659) ^ref-41203

---
The complexity of material has likely increased dramatically, yet our reading skill has remained the same. — location: [3662](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3662) ^ref-20616

---
3. Subvocalization Subvocalization is a fancy word for your inner voice. — location: [3663](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3663) ^ref-4597

---
As you are reading, you can greatly increase both your speed and comprehension by visualizing the material. — location: [3681](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3681) ^ref-37103

---
It is not necessary to “say” all of the words, as it takes too much time, just as you don’t read and say “period, comma, question mark,” when you see them in a sentence. — location: [3681](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3681) ^ref-28513

---
You don’t need to pronounce those words, just as you don’t need to pronounce filler words like because, this, or the. You know them by sight, not by sound. It is the meaning of what the word represents that is important. And the meaning is usually better described and remembered in the form of pictures. Understanding this concept is the first step in reducing subvocalization. — location: [3685](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3685) ^ref-42352

---
READING MISCONCEPTIONS Myth 1: Faster Readers Don’t Comprehend Well — location: [3688](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3688) ^ref-47364

---
If your mind ever wanders and daydreams, this could be the reason. If you don’t give your brain the stimulus it needs, it’ll seek entertainment elsewhere in the form of distraction. — location: [3697](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3697) ^ref-45285

---
Myth 2: It’s Harder and Takes More Effort to Read Fast Reading faster requires less effort, primarily because trained readers tend not to back-skip as much as slower readers. — location: [3702](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3702) ^ref-56944

---
Myth 3: Faster Readers Can’t Appreciate Reading This is not true either. You don’t have to study the individual brushstrokes of a work of art in order to appreciate it. — location: [3707](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3707) ^ref-59105

---
Likewise, you do not have to study each and every word in a book, to realize its value. One of the best things about being a trained reader is flexibility. Faster readers have the option of speeding through boring/nonessential material and slowing down or even rereading the exciting/important information. Flexibility is power. Faster readers appreciate reading most material because they know it will not take all — location: [3708](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3708) ^ref-20469

---
using your finger as a guide keeps your eyes focused and prevents them from wandering. Using your finger to read actually increases your reading speed because your eye is attracted to motion. — location: [3714](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3714) ^ref-46919

---
Using your finger also dramatically decreases regression, and is one of the reasons why your reading speed increases with this practice. — location: [3727](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3727) ^ref-30467

---
Practice reading with your finger, this tool alone will significantly increase your speed and comprehension and will revolutionize your learning. — location: [3729](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3729) ^ref-25677

---
Here are some more tools that will help you to become an accelerated reader: 1. Reading Is Like Exercising When you go to work out, you cannot expect your muscles to grow if you pamper them. You need to push your muscles to where they are a little uncomfortable in order for them to grow. The same applies to reading. If you push yourself to read faster, your “reading muscles” will become stronger, and what was once hard, becomes easy. You can read faster, simply by training yourself to read faster. — location: [3732](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3732) ^ref-58198

---
To increase your speed, even more, try this exercise: You will need an easy-reading novel, a pencil, and a watch or timer: Read comfortably (using your finger or a visual pacer) for 4 minutes. Set the alarm to go off in 4 minutes and read as you normally would read. Mark the line when your alarm goes off. This is going to be your “finish line.” Now set your alarm for 3 minutes. The goal here is to reach the finish line before your alarm goes off. Then read (using your finger) until the line in step 1 in 3 minutes. Set your alarm for 2 minutes. Don’t worry about comprehension. Try to get to the finish line before your alarm goes off in 2 minutes. Use a visual pacer and go through it line by line. Have your eyes follow your finger as fast as possible. Final stretch. Set your timer for 1 minute. Do your best to get to the finish line in one minute. Do not skip any line, and don’t worry about comprehension right now. Now breathe. Set your timer for 2 minutes. Start from your finish line to read a new section. Read at a comfortable rate with comprehension. Count the number of lines you read, multiply by the number of words per line, then divide this number by two. This is your new reading rate. Write it down. — location: [3738](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3738) ^ref-27518

---
2. Expand Your Peripheral Vision Your peripheral vision is the span of letters or words that your eyes can see in a single glance. By increasing your peripheral vision, you will be able to see and take in more words at a time. Most people were taught to read only one word at a time. But in fact, you are capable of reading more than that. — location: [3756](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3756) ^ref-54094

---
But if you put the word card at the end of the report, you get REPORT CARD. These two words have their own distinct meanings, but your mind sees them as one unit. — location: [3763](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3763) ^ref-41863

---
skilled readers see groups of words (or ideas) and not the individual words. See Additional tips below that you can use to condition yourself to “see” more. — location: [3765](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3765) ^ref-33931

---
3. Counting By using the exercises I’ve outlined, the challenge of subvocalization will begin to decrease. — location: [3767](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3767) ^ref-59852

---
Counting is another tool you can use to drown out this inner voice. The process is deceptively simple: count out loud as you are reading, “one, two, three . . .” and so on. You’ll find it is very difficult to count out loud and talk inside (subvocalize) at the same time. — location: [3771](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3771) ^ref-19699

---
People tend to remember and understand what they see, more than what they hear. — location: [3775](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3775) ^ref-37370

---
ADDITIONAL READING TIPS. Hold your book upright. If the book is flat on your desk, you may be doing one of two things, either looking at the print at an angle versus directly, thus putting unnecessary strain on your eyes, or you will be slouched over in order to see the print clearly, and this (as you know) disrupts the flow of oxygen through your body and makes you feel tired. Read for only 20 to 25 minutes at a time. Remember the primacy and regency effect. Also, if your eyes ever get tired or feel strained, take a break. Close your eyes and let them rest. Make reading a habit. Those who have reached a high degree of success in life are almost always avid readers. Great readers read often. The key is to make reading a habit. Give yourself this gift. When — location: [3793](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3793) ^ref-8788

---
KWIK START Block out at least 15 minutes each day for reading and put it in your calendar like an important appointment. Commit to making reading part of your daily habit. — location: [3809](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3809) ^ref-34151

---
Identify a current reading habit that you’d like to change. Any transformation requires you to acknowledge what’s holding you back and notice when it shows up during your practice. Practice reading with a visual pacer each day. Schedule your reading, for even 10 minutes each day, to build your “reading muscle.” Make a list of the books you would like to read this month and write down what can change in your life when you finish reading them. Take my speed-reading online masterclass (free) at www.jimkwik.com/reading. — location: [3816](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3816) ^ref-46321

---
Why is it important to think from a variety of perspectives? What are the various ways people use their intelligence? What kinds of superpowers can you harness by thinking differently? — location: [3824](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3824) ^ref-39743

---
“We can’t solve problems by using the same kind of thinking we used when we created them.” — location: [3829](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3829) ^ref-4282

---
The core notion is to separate thinking into six distinctly defined functions by progressively donning a series of metaphorical hats: You put on a white hat when you’re in information-gathering mode. — location: [3841](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3841) ^ref-61805

---
You switch to a yellow hat to bring optimism to your thinking. Here, you’re trying to identify the positives in any problem or challenge you’re facing, — location: [3844](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3844) ^ref-24163

---
Next, you’ll wear a black hat to pivot from looking at the good side of the challenge to facing its difficulties and pitfalls. — location: [3846](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3846) ^ref-14723

---
Once you’ve done that, don your red hat to allow emotion to come into play. — location: [3848](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3848) ^ref-52193

---
Now it’s time for the green hat. When you’re wearing this hat, you’re in creativity mode. You’ve looked at the problem analytically and you’ve looked at it emotionally. Now ask yourself, what new ideas can you bring to what you already know about the problem? — location: [3851](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3851) ^ref-40051

---
Finally, wear the blue hat to be in management mode, and make sure you’ve addressed your agenda productively and gone through the process in a way that benefits from all the other hats you’ve worn. — location: [3854](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3854) ^ref-23683

---
The De Bono approach to problem-solving is an ingenious and elegantly organized method for getting the most from your thinking. — location: [3858](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3858) ^ref-27546

---
KWIK START Think of a problem you need to be solved right now. It can be anything from “How can I get that job,” to “How can I communicate better with my family?” Use the Six Thinking Hats model to run through the different perspectives of looking at the problem you’re trying to solve. HOW ARE YOU SMART? — location: [3868](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3868) ^ref-12140

---
Dr. Howard Gardner, professor of cognition and education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, has studied intelligence extensively and has identified eight distinct forms of intelligence:2 — location: [3872](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3872) ^ref-4437

---
Spatial : This is someone who usually thinks from the perspective of the space around them. — location: [3874](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3874) ^ref-44487

---
Bodily-Kinesthetic: Someone with a dominance of this form of intelligence uses their body as a form of expression or problem-solving. — location: [3877](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3877) ^ref-36007

---
Musical : This is a person with a strong “sensitivity to rhythm, pitch, meter, tone, melody and timbre.” — location: [3880](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3880) ^ref-60679

---
Linguistic: Someone with a dominance in linguistic intelligence is particularly attuned to all the implications of words, not just their strict dictionary definition. — location: [3883](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3883) ^ref-38169

---
Logical-Mathematical: This is a strength in seeing the “logical relations among actions or symbols.” — location: [3886](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3886) ^ref-39599

---
Interpersonal : Someone with a dominance in interpersonal intelligence has a deep innate ability to connect with other people and a rich understanding of how others might be feeling at any given moment. — location: [3889](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3889) ^ref-42506

---
Intrapersonal : If you have dominance in intrapersonal intelligence, you have a particularly refined sense of what is going on inside of you. — location: [3892](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3892) ^ref-37457

---
Naturalistic: This kind of intelligence expresses itself in an ability to see the world of nature in all its complexities. — location: [3897](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3897) ^ref-10382

---
Just as types of intelligence vary from person to person, the way one learns varies. The VAK learning styles model has been in use since the 1920s and is useful in showing you how you prefer to learn new things: V is for Visual, meaning that you tend to learn through illustrations, charts, video, and other visual media. A is for Auditory, meaning that you find yourself most comfortable learning by listening, either to a lecture, a discussion, a podcast, an audiobook, etc. K is for Kinesthetic, meaning that you prefer to learn via physical interaction. Kinesthetic learners tend to gain more from taking a hands-on approach to learning.5 — location: [3907](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3907) ^ref-40219

---
Decision-Making: The 40/70 Rule One of the greatest barriers to quick decision-making is the ever-present feeling that we don’t have enough information to make the “right” decision. — location: [3985](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3985) ^ref-45285

---
Productivity: Create a Not-to-Do List This one might seem counterintuitive, but sometimes it’s just as important to know what not to do as what to do. — location: [3994](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=3994) ^ref-9266

---
First, write down tasks that might be important but can’t be done because of outside circumstances. — location: [4002](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4002) ^ref-36727

---
Next, include tasks that you think need to be done but that don’t add value to your life; you might also think of these as busywork. — location: [4004](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4004) ^ref-42134

---
Then include current and ongoing tasks that don’t benefit from additional attention. — location: [4007](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4007) ^ref-35440

---
Last, include urgent tasks that are often to-do lists given to us by other people, such as getting some background research on a project or making follow-up calls. — location: [4010](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4010) ^ref-65484

---
KWIK START Do this right now. Take a moment to create your not-to-do list for today. What are the things you need to avoid today to focus and achieve your goals? Be specific and check off that list by not doing it. — location: [4015](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4015) ^ref-17938

---
Problem-Solving: Study Your Errors When we take the time to study the mistakes we make, especially those that have a lasting effect on our lives, we turn every mistake into a learning opportunity. Use this model to evaluate what went wrong so you can get a better result next time. First, get clear on what did or didn’t happen. Often, we confuse cause with correlation, so be sure you understand what happened and what led to the mistake or error. Next, ask yourself why those mistakes happened. Look for the deeper layers behind the incident. You might ask “why” until you’ve run out of layers to question. Then ask how you can best avoid the same mistakes in the future. If some of the factors that caused the error are out of your control, ask how you can prevent causes that can’t be eliminated. Finally, using what you’ve gleaned from this exercise, determine how you can create the best conditions to support your desired outcomes in the future.9 — location: [4017](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4017) ^ref-41628

---
Strategy: Second-Order Thinking Most of us think about the consequences of our actions, but few of us think even two steps beyond the immediate effects our actions will have on our lives. Let’s consider Ryan Holiday’s book, Conspiracy, which describes how entrepreneur Peter Thiel planned and executed a takedown of one of America’s most prolific (and disliked) online magazines, Gawker. — location: [4039](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4039) ^ref-35912

---
This model is simple and yet not always easy. To use second-order thinking when considering future actions: Always ask yourself, “And then what?” Think in increments of time. What do the consequences look like in five days? Five months? Five years? Draw out the possible courses of action you might take using columns to organize consequences.11 First-order thinking is easy, but it’s second-order thinking that allows us to go deeper through time and consequences. Best of all, it allows us to see what others can’t see. TAKING — location: [4046](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4046) ^ref-29109

---
Moving forward incrementally is a significant sign of progress. Every step you can take in the process of becoming limitless is a step in the right direction. — location: [4052](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4052) ^ref-11946

---
“Exponential thinking is when you start to see things from a different mindset,” Jain told me. “It’s not about thinking outside the box; it’s about thinking in a completely different box.” — location: [4057](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4057) ^ref-30798

---
But what if we looked at the root cause of the problem and solved that instead? This would lead to exponential progress, world-changing progress. — location: [4063](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4063) ^ref-16290

---
To learn more about Viome and watch my interview with Naveen Jain, visit www.JimKwik.com/Viome. — location: [4079](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4079) ^ref-32092

---
So, how does an individual think exponentially? — location: [4081](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4081) ^ref-4281

---
If you want to fire up your exponential thinking ability—and take a huge step toward unlimiting your genius—consider these four steps the next time you contemplate a problem or task in need of a solution: — location: [4102](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4102) ^ref-42657

---
Step 1: Get to the Underlying Problem As Naveen Jain illustrated when addressing the world’s water problem, the core issue might not be the surface issue at all. — location: [4104](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4104) ^ref-57273

---
Solving the underlying problem allows for a much more workable solution to the surface problem. — location: [4107](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4107) ^ref-24306

---
Step 2: Posit a New Approach One of the keys to exponential thinking is filling your thoughts with what-if statements. — location: [4114](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4114) ^ref-957

---
‘What if the human race needed to adapt and live in a world which was 90 percent underwater’ or ‘What if we could no longer touch things with our hands to interact.’ This helps conceptualize a WHOLE different array of things we may never have thought of otherwise and allows us to imagine what we would need to survive in a future world, which could be a very different place.” — location: [4116](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4116) ^ref-30866

---
Step 3: Read about It As you already know, I am an extremely strong advocate for reading as much as you possibly can. Reading liberates your brain more than virtually any other activity. Reading is especially important when it comes to exponential thinking. You can’t make huge cognitive leaps if you don’t have a well-rounded view of a subject. — location: [4124](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4124) ^ref-60938

---
Step 4: Extrapolate You’ve now identified the underlying problem, posed questions that allow you to imagine a world without the problem, and done your research. Now, it’s time to try out a scenario. — location: [4131](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4131) ^ref-19295

---
Review Howard Gardner’s eight forms of intelligence starting on HOW ARE YOU SMART?. Which forms on this list align most closely with your own intelligence? Now that you know what your learning style is, what can you do to incorporate the other styles into your thinking? Try on all six thinking hats during a test case. Give yourself a relatively simple task, and approach it using Edward de Bono’s method. — location: [4144](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4144) ^ref-20932

---
The limitless you has a limitless mindset. — location: [4159](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4159) ^ref-62424

---
focus, study, memory improvement, speed reading, and thinking skills? — location: [4319](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4319) ^ref-1980

---
Get free access at JimKwik.com/Reading — location: [4330](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4330) ^ref-2595

---
The Magic of Thinking Big by David J. Schwartz Man’s Search for Meaning by Viktor Frankl Understanding Understanding by Richard Saul Wurman The Tapping Solution for Manifesting Your Greatest Self by Nick Ortner Start With Why by Simon Sinek The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People by Stephen R. Covey Change Your Brain, Change Your Life by Dr. Daniel Amen The Motivation Manifesto by Brendon Burchard Tiny Habits by Dr. BJ Fogg Brain Food by Lisa Mosconi Me to We by Marc Kielburger & Craig Kielburger The Promise of a Pencil by Adam Braun Miracle Mindset by JJ Virgin The TB12 Method by Tom Brady Super Human by Dave Asprey The Infinite Game by Simon Sinek The Future Is Faster Than You Think by Steven Kotler & Peter Diamandis The Code of the Extraordinary Mind by Vishen Lakhiani The School of Greatness by Lewis Howes Stress Less, Accomplish More by Emily Fletcher The Power of When by Dr. Michael Breus Becoming Super Woman by Nicole Lapin Chineasy Everyday by Shaolan #AskGaryVee by Gary Vaynerchuk Becoming Supernatural by Dr. Joe Dispenza Moonwalking with Einstein by Joshua Foer The Brain that Changes Itself by Dr. Norman Doidge Mindset by Carol Dweck The Align Method by Aaron Alexander Super Brain by Deepak Chopra and Rudolph Tanzi Genius Foods by Max Lugavere Sleep Smarter by Shawn Stevenson The UltraMind Solution by Dr. Mark Hyman Spark by Dr. John Ratey The 4-Hour Chef by Tim Ferriss Math Doesn’t Suck by Danica Mckellar Boundless by Ben Greenfield Six Thinking Hats by Edward de Bono Thrive by Arianna Huffington The Element by Sir Ken Robinson with Lou Aronica TED Talks by Chris Anderson Atomic Habits by James Clear Imagine It Forward by Beth Comstock & Tahl Raz Belong by Radha Agrawal Disrupt-Her by Miki Agrawal The Ripple Effect by Dr. Greg Wells Exponential Transformation by Salim Ismail, Francisco Palao & Michelle Lapierre Think Like a Monk by Jay Shetty The Alter Ego Effect by Todd Herman How to Live a Good Life by Jonathan Fields The Mind Map Book by Barry Buzan & Tony Buzan The Principles by Ray Dalio Re-Create Your Life by Morty Lefkoe Emotional First Aid by Dr. Guy Winch A Higher Branch by Sam Makhoul Cancer-Free with Food by Liana Werner-Gray Food Can Fix It by Dr. Mehmet Oz — location: [4333](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4333) ^ref-19605

---
University, and Singularity University. Through keynote speeches, he reaches in-person audiences — location: [4468](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B082ZQDH63&location=4468) ^ref-52448

---
