---
title: The Daily Laws-1645415457664
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '6736'
  title: The Daily Laws
  author: Robert Greene
  highlightsCount: 12
---
# The Daily Laws
## Metadata
* Author: [Robert Greene](None)

## Highlights
Concentrate on maintaining a high sense — location: [283]() ^ref-36303

---
The key to success in any field is first developing skills in various areas, which you can later combine in unique and creative ways. — location: [460]() ^ref-29681

---
Embrace negative experiences. When was the last time you failed, felt embarrassed, got criticized? What were you doing? What did the experience teach you? — location: [465]() ^ref-21160

---
Obviously, mentors have a lot to give you. But, more important, you have to have something to give them. — location: [656]() ^ref-50918

---
The mentor-protégé relationship is the most efficient and productive form of learning. The right mentors know where to focus your attention and how to challenge you. Their knowledge and experience become yours. — location: [710]() ^ref-1506

---
Every task you are given, no matter how menial, offers opportunities to observe this world at work. No detail about the people within it is too trivial. Everything you see or hear is a sign for you to decode. — location: [746]() ^ref-26662

---
Approach every task, even the most menial, the same: as an opportunity to observe and amass information about your environment. — location: [752]() ^ref-8816

---
Everything worth doing has a learning curve. When it gets hard, remember the goal: reaching the cycle of accelerated returns. — location: [765]() ^ref-11750

---
In essence, Rodgers had taught himself to love the detailed work itself, and once you develop that there is no stopping you. Daily Law: Master the details and the rest will fall into place. — location: [825]() ^ref-32976

---

Find the deepest pleasure in absorbing knowledge and information. Feel like you never have enough. — location: [920]() ^ref-52860

---
You may think that what you’d like to recapture from your youth is your looks, your physical fitness, your simple pleasures, but what you really need is the fluidity of mind you once possessed. — location: [1121]() ^ref-7573

---

Get into a flow state today. Rid yourself of the distractions and cheap pleasures. Lose yourself in the work. — location: [1385]() ^ref-571

---
